Global peer-to-peer platform, Paxful, has said financial education remained at the forefront of its mission to bring financial services closer to Nigerians where a large part of the adult population lack financial services knowledge. According to S&P’s Global Financial Literacy Survey, African countries score low in terms of financial literacy compared to the rest of the world. Narrowing it on Nigeria, the survey shows that only 26 per cent of adults are financially literate, while 74 per cent lack the understanding of basic financial concepts. To address the knowledge gap and strengthen the drive for financial inclusion, Paxful reiterated its commitment in setting up Bitcoin Educational Centres in key markets where it operates to promote financial inclusion. Last year, the company launched the PaxNaija Educational Centre  in Abuja to educate, train and inform Nigerians on the adoption of Bitcoin and digital currencies.   Elumelu advocates well-regulated market for Africa     Quickteller Paypoint rewards agents     Stanbic IBTC Asset Management provides investment solutions   - Advertisement - Four months later, the P2P platform launched another educational centre, “La Casa Del Bitcoin” – in the heart of El Salvador. The centre is expected to provide free educational training and events to grow awareness around the benefits of buying and selling Bitcoin as a means of exchange, while contributing to efforts to boost financial inclusion in the region. La Casa Del Bitcoin will also be home to the Built With Bitcoin Foundation  offices, a not-for-profit organisation dedicated to creating equitable opportunity by providing clean water, access to quality education, sustainable farming, and humanitarian support – all powered by Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies. According to Ray Youssef, CEO, and co-founder of Paxful, “Bitcoin is shaping the future of finance in El Salvador and beyond. Education continues to be a key driver of global Bitcoin adoption and this new center represents its importance to the creation of an inclusive financial system. We’re excited to learn from the people and share the power of Bitcoin for freedom and equal financial access.” Financial literacy is a key component of growth and development. While emerging markets are leading in Bitcoin adoption, there is still a wide knowledge gap on the opportunities Bitcoin can offer for financial freedom. At its core, financial inclusion begins and ends with education. Bitcoin can pave the way for a brighter financial future, but developing nations need greater access to resources that highlight its value. SPONSORED