Since the return of democracy in 1999, Nigeria has made progressive attempts at citizen care, in the many poverty alleviation programmes, by the federal and state governments. It is under this extant policy that Chris Ngige, labour and employment minister, made a pledge in Panama that the Buhari administration planned to capture no less than half of the Nigerian population in the government’s social security net.  He was speaking at the World Social Security Summit, which was held at Panama City, Panama, in 2016. “Some of the programmes in our integrated social protection scheme are already being implemented as evidenced in the 200, 000 graduates who will commence work by next month,” Dr. Ngige told the summit.  “More of the jobs are in the offing.  Our target is to ensure that millions of Nigerians are lifted out of poverty line, while at least 50 per cent of the population is captured in the social security net.” Recently, the minister lamented our failure as a nation in this regard and by implication the Buhari administration while receiving Muriel Penicaud, a French candidate for the International Labour Organization in Abuja. He spoke of the “scourge of massive unemployment and underemployment.” In truth since 1999, “safety nets” have evolved from the initial Poverty Alleviation Programme (PAP) and the National Poverty Eradication Programme (NAPEP) of the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidency; to the 200, 000 graduate job volunteers scheme which the minister mentioned in Panama, coupled with the present Federal Government’s home-grown school feeding scheme; not forgetting the conditional cash transfer to the poorest of the poor in today’s Nigeria. - Advertisement - Between NAPEP and the current Buhari phase of safety nets, some state governments provided an excellent nursery.  Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State in his first coming (2010-2014) did an elderly scheme, in which some seniors, judged to be indigent, were given monthly stipends.  Unfortunately, Governor Ayo Fayose, who succeeded Dr. Fayemi, scrapped that scheme.   Still, a more comprehensive template emerged from the Osun State governorship of Rauf Aregbesola (2010-2018) where programmes like the Osun Youth Empowerment Scheme (OYES), the Osun school feeding programme and the Agba Osun monthly stipends laid the path which the Buhari graduate job volunteer scheme and the national conditional cash transfer seem to follow. Still, would all of these, even in their much improved and structured form, pass for a vibrant social security scheme?  Not exactly, although the current available data that power these schemes could well be harnessed for a much more systematic citizen systemic care.  Systemic care — structured, backed by enabling laws, mandatory, comprehensive and predictable — is the hallmark of a vibrant and thriving social security system.  Nigeria is still very far from that. By the protocols of the International Labour Organization (ILO), first developed from its Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention of 1952, with ongoing added instruments over the years, social security has nine pillars: medical care, sickness, unemployment, old age, employment injury, family, maternity, invalidity and survivors’ benefit.  A full-fledged social security regime would find citizens drawing benefits from all of these planks — all of them life emergencies of sorts — to make life and its shocks much more bearable. However, for progressive implementation, since nations don’t have equal resources, ILO recommends that every country accepts at least three of the nine social safety pillars.  Thereafter, they could do increasing obligation for the remaining six, until they progressively attain the full implementation of the nine.   Rise in banking fraud: whodunit?     World leaders seek urgent financing to address rural…     Aregbesola’s incredible outburst   For clarity, ILO defines social security as “a human right which responds to the universal need for protection against certain life risks and social needs.  Effective social security and health protection,” it further states, “contributes to the prevention and reduction of poverty and inequality; and the promotion of social inclusion and human dignity.” ILO also explains how social security schemes work: “They do so through the provision of benefits, in cash or in kind, intended to ensure access to medical care and health services; as well as income security throughout the life cycle, particularly in the event of illness, unemployment, injury, maternity, family responsibilities, invalidity, loss of family breadwinner, as well and during retirement and old age.” But shorn of prescriptions and convention lingo, social security is all about dispersing state resources to the needs of the society’s most vulnerable, in a globe where all fingers are never equal.  Since the rich have enough resources to take care of themselves, social security is a conscious effort to take care of the not-so-economically buoyant, for the rich to enjoy their wealth in peace. Indeed, part of the serious challenges of contemporary Nigeria is that there are too many poor people to have sustainable peace.  That seems the ugly fount, from which crimes like Islamist terrorism, free-wheeling banditry, kidnapping, armed robbery and other violent crimes gush.  If the poor have a better deal, the probability is that such crimes would reduce. But, apart from the stark contrast between the rich and the poor, the collapse of the age-old extended family support system — no thanks to biting economic pains — also makes an urgent case for basic and comprehensive citizen support system, especially access to health care at old age; and temporary help for teeming but jobless youths, as a stop-gap before getting gainful jobs. The first challenge before the country, therefore, is to follow the ILO advisory and start with three of the nine pillars.  After choosing those pillars, there should be a backing legislation to make such a national policy.  The law should be such that no government can come and over-turn the social security policy. From the enabling law should come rigorous processes, in which the new benefits are structured, predictable, mandatory, systemic and systematic.   But away from the enabling law, a far bigger tax base is essential to set such support system.  That way, in the principle of progressive taxation, the rich are taxed to give up excess munificence to act as state cushion for the not-so-rich. Still, despite Nigeria’s laggardly state in comprehensive social security, it would not be inventing any wheel.  First, the data delivering the Buhari government’s present social support schemes could be deepened; to ensure a much broader and much integrated social security system.   Also, the National Pension Commission (PENCOM) and the National Social Insurance Trust Fund ( NSITFund); as well as the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) should be reinvigorated and integrated in a new and comprehensive social security.   The government can also seek help from China (which has pulled one billion people from poverty over a 10-year period).  It can also tap ILO for funding and sundry international aide to support youth employment.  If sincere efforts are made, a social security system for Nigerians is very much attainable.   SPONSORED