In formal terms, Bashir Tofa was one of the principal figures in the June 12, 1993, presidential election debacle. As candidate and standard-bearer of the National Republican Convention (NRC), one of the two recognised official political parties, he shared the spotlight with the candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Bashorun MKO Abiola. Few outside Kano and the business community knew much about Tofa until he was catapulted to head the NRC ticket by the not-so-hidden hands of the grand manipulator in Aso Rock and his proxies, as an element in their secret agenda. The intelligence at the time was that military president, Ibrahim Babangida would seize on some gaps in Tofa’s résumé to void the election if, as per his calculation, Tofa won. And Tofa would not be in a position to cause a stir. Secret agenda or no secret agenda, foil or no foil, Tofa grew quickly into the role of presidential candidate, crisscrossing the country in a spirited campaign. One element of that campaign clings in my memory. It was a television commercial in which a man decked out as an ordained priest  led an energetic crowd whose attires reflected the nation’s ethnic diversity in chanting “Tofa is the answer, Tofa.” Billboards dotting the landscape carried the same message. Even more memorable was the televised debate between Tofa and Abiola, staged by the NTA and moderated by its senior programme executive, Dr Biodun Sotumbi. Oil pricing came up, naturally, in the wake of yet another threat to cut a phantom gasoline subsidy. Tofa, it turned out, did not even know the pump price of a gallon of petrol. There was always something flighty about him. But his performance was on the whole passable. Among major commentators, only MCK Ajuluchukwu thought Tofa had “won” the debate. - Advertisement - For Nigerians weary of the bitterness and the stubborn refusal to accept defeat that had been prominent features of Nigerian politics, I suspect that the high point of the debate came at the very end. Abiola and Tofa shook hands and pledged to abide by the result of the election, no matter how it turned. This, then, was going to be a different election. The political transition programme, despite its manifest flaws, might yet inaugurate a new political era. It was not to be. Abiola won outright in 18 states, including Tofa’s home state, Kano. He also won more than one-fourth of the votes cast in all but two or three of the remaining 14 states. This was the most decisive victory in Nigeria’s history, in what local and foreign observers ranked among the cleanest they had witnessed anywhere and also, I fear, the fairest and freest my generation will ever know. The National Electoral Commission had named a chief returning officer, a signal that it was           set to declare a winner. In keeping with Tofa’s pledge, his camp had assembled to put the finishing touches to a statement conceding defeat when, according to Dr Doyin Okupe, NRC’s national publicity secretary, Tofa’s cell phone rang. Tofa responded in Hausa to the call, which he said was from “the Villa,” and then retreated to a private room where he and the caller continued their conversation, in Hausa. Emerging some 30 minutes later, Tofa was a changed man, Okupe told me in an interview for my book, Diary of a Debacle.  Gone from his countenance was any trace of a willingness to concede, or even compromise. In its place, defiance, and grim determination. The concession was never made. Instead, calls for voiding the poll, for reasons ranging from the infantile to the spurious, poured forth from the NRC camp. Babangida gladly obliged. Abiola’s camp, propelled by the umbrella organisation NADECO, mounted a campaign of protest and resistance that shook Nigeria to its fragile roots. Tofa slunk into the obscurity from which he had been plucked. Never has a principal actor in an epic drama faded so quickly from the scene, unremarked and barely remembered.   I.E: of rare and real apologies     Nigerian economy: So foggy, so cloudy     Electoral Act for Nigeria   Sometime in 1997, Tofa’s handlers inveigled or bribed some rogue elements in the New York-based Council on Foreign Relations into inviting him to address that prestigious bastion of America’s foreign policy establishment. Compounding his fecklessness with mendacity, Tofa declared with a straight face that he, not Abiola, had won the election – a claim Tofa had never made at home — and that he had accepted the annulment in the national interest. Year after year, as those who hold that governance should be based on the consent of the people rather than the caprice of a cabal celebrated the June 12 anniversary, Tofa kept denouncing the occasion. He was at it again in 2013, on the 20th anniversary of the historic poll. The brutal and thieving dictator, Sani Abacha, of frightful memory, had called the election a “watershed.” In a shameless and self-serving retreat with few parallels here or anywhere, the annuller himself, General Babangida, had called the election “the best” in Nigeria’s history and claimed the credit for organising it. Fifteen years after the election, its chief umpire, Humphrey Nwosu, freed finally from the oath  of silence the annullers had sworn him to, published the official results.  Abiola had won, in the manner the election returns awaiting official certification had indicated. As if to secure his place in the hall of infamy even as other authors and enablers of the annulment were seeking desperately to extricate themselves from that gallery, Tofa declared, on its 20th anniversary that “June 12” was dead, that its celebration “a fiction.” “I am not one of those people that celebrate fiction that is the more reason why I don’t like to be talking again on June 12 presidential election,” he told journalists in Kano. “Only those who don’t have anything to offer to this country to move forward can still be talking about June 12 presidential elections. “If you have learnt any lesson out of it, well; if you have not, keep quiet, let this country make progress. But for one to still be talking about something that occurred 20 years ago, is colossal waste of time.” This is the quality of mind of a man whom the manipulators of the transition program judged fit to be president, the man who had a statistical chance of being elected to that office but chose to connive in the annulment of the election. Yet, when he died on January 3, aged 74, unless you belonged in the attentive audience, you would have been led to believe that Tofa was “a patriot to the core,” the quintessence of statesmanship, and a democrat of the deepest hue. President Muhammadu Buhari eulogized him as “a true nationalist that would be difficult to replace” and for good measure dispatched a delegation to Kano with a message of condolence to            State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje.  Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni lamented that Tofa departed when Nigeria sorely needed his wise counsel. And so on and so forth. But their Tofa is the Tofa we never knew. As I stated earlier, there was always more than a touch of flightiness to the Tofa persona.  That flightiness was on full display on June 12, 1993, as he traipsed from one voting booth to another in his Kano constituency in vain hope of casting his ballot. His name was not on any of the books. Apparently, the man who would be President had not even bothered to register to vote. History will remember him all right, but mainly as a contemptible footnote to “June 12.”