The National Assembly has no business lobbying the executive to assent to bills after they have been passed, House of Representatives spokesman Benjamin Kalu, said yesterday. Kalu said such action would amount to putting undue pressure on another arm of government. Admitting lobbying as part of politics, he said some people have the mandate to lobby for laws to either be passed or signed by the executive. He said the executive should trust the legislature in the performance of their responsibilities. Kalu said: “We are three arms of government. Though we are three, we are one government and it will be interfering within the parameters of our mandate not to allow them the independency as proposed by the Constitution. - Advertisement - “They should be allowed the free hand to make decisions based on what we have proffered as a reflection of the wishes, hunger and desire of the common Nigerians. The executive should be able to trust the parliament enough to know that what we speak remains the voice of the people and not our own voices. “But when it comes to lobbying, there are so many stakeholders whose job it is to follow through issues like this. Once it is before the parliament, they come to lobby. Even in the US, there are lobbyists and once we finish because they are interested, they will go lobbying.   Revenue allocation formula unfair to Niger Delta, by Diri     Queen Elizabeth under scrutiny after Charles tests positive     Tribunal upholds Elegushi kingdom   “Talking about the civil society organizations, NGOs, even nations that have interest in Nigeria and want us to move up from where we are to where we ought to be in our democratic advancement, will make some movement to make sure the executive buys I to what we have done. “What we have done is that we have shown maturity in the way we have conducted affairs without being on an ego trip, remaining humble, working for the people and allowing the executive to play their part as expected of the law.” On the statement credited to the AGF that the President will not sign the bill if the executive discovered that there are personal interests in some of its provisions, Kalu said the parliament will await the President’s line of action. He said: “The bill has been transmitted to the President and as required by law, he has thirty days within which to either sign or reject the bill. I do know that discussions are going on with regards to that. “In a legislation of this nature, there is nothing like personal interest. What we have is national interest. But we will not pre-empt the executive. We have done what we need to do and pass the ball to the executive. “It is a process and an issue of great importance. It is very sensitive and has implications for both the Executive and the legislature.” He said the 2010 Electoral Act had become obsolete “The 2010 Electoral Act is obsolete and cannot longer meet the demands, expectations, ethos and principles of democracy,” the House spokesman said.