GOXI Micro Insurance Company positioned to deliver unique insurance solutions to micro, small, medium enterprises (MSMEs), has entered Lagos markets with “We Dey Ur Back” campaign to introduce traders to the various insurance packages created by the company to help educate traders on the benefits of insurance to their business. During the sensitisation, at Oke Arin market, Lagos Island, the traders were delighted when GOXI representatives introduced the “GOXI Ma Business” to the traders at the market. They were excited because the insurance product provides them the opportunity to have access to affordable packages which addresses some of the major problems being faced by them. The Business Development Manager, GOXI Micro Insurance Mr. Efe Isiorho, explained that traders can now have their goods insured with as low as N500 (Five Hundred Naira) under the GOXI Ma Business insurance package. According to him, “GOXI Ma Business is an insurance plan developed to help traders insure their wares. The insurance plan helps to provide funds whenever goods gets damaged following occurrence of burglary, theft or fire. It also provides alternative shop for the business.” - Advertisement - Mr. Efe also introduced other products such as the GOXI Microloan Protection, which helps with the repayment of loans or debts following occurrence of unforeseen events like loss of job or untimely death. Others are GOXI Agric Loan Protection targeted at farmers and this will support them to repay Agric loans following occurrence of unforeseen events like flood or damage of crops or farm produce and GOXI Welfare, which is a plan designed for staffs, family, and association members’ to have access to medical treatments expenses in the event of accident or permanent disability.   TotalEnergies, NNPC, UNITAR inaugurate plastic recycling…     Aviation unions issue strike notice     Emefiele to rice millers: embrace backward integration   The “We Dey Your Back” campaign has gone round various markets in differents local Government in lagos state such as Oke-Arin, Balogun, Tejuosho, Iyana Ipaja, Igando, Ikorodu, Ikeja and Agege markets. During the visit to one of the selected market, Alhaja Temitope Dada, a Trader at Oniwaya market, Agege, appreciated GOXI Micro Insurance for the creation of the GOXI Ma Business Micro Insurance plan. She narrated her the ordeal she faced when her shop was looted during the End SARS protests, how she lost everything and had to start afresh because she didn’t insure her shop. She encouraged her fellow traders to be part of the great offer so that they can be assured that their goods are covered in case of unforeseen incidents. The Chairman, GOXI Micro Insurance, Dr. Godwin Ehigiamusoe, noted that the campaign, “We Dey Your Back” is one of the ways the company plans to help Nigerians create a sustainable future for their business and family. “We are poised to deliver responsive insurance policies through our flexible and innovative structures.” His words, “For us at GOXI Micro Insurance Company, we noticed that most traders have little or no information on the benefits of insurance due to the said reason, we decided to organized the “We Dey Your Back” Campaign market storm to educate traders, farmers and other low income Nigerians on the various insurance policies that will insure them against all forms of risks.” “GOXI Micro Insurance Company is the first licensed stand-alone micro-insurance company under the guidelines of the National Insurance Commission. We are open to partnership with microfinance banks, institutions, and different forms of association, telcos, and other aggregators to deliver risk management solutions to their members. The insurance cover is for persons at the bottom end of the society. The company has strongly demonstrated this through records of our claims payments to traders, Artisans, Micro and small business owners within the period that we commenced operation. We are poised to continuously address these challenges”, he added.