President Muhammadu Buhari has sworn in six new National Commissioners of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The brief swearing-in ceremony, which preceded the weekly virtual Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting, took place at the Council Chambers of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Present at the inauguration of the Commissioners were Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; Senate President Senator Ahmad Lawan and Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila. Also present at the ceremony were the Secretary to Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha; the Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari; the National Security Adviser (NSA), Major General Babagana Monguno (Rtd); and some of the Ministers scheduled to attend the FEC meeting. Those sworn-in include Mohammed Haruna (Niger State); Mrs. Agbamuche Mbu (Delta); Okeagu Nnamdi (Abia); Major General Abubakar Alkali (Rtd.) (Adamawa); Professor Rada Gumus (Bayelsa) and Sam Elumeku (Ogun). Speaking to State House Correspondents soon after the swearing-in ceremoney, Chairman of INEC, Professor Mahmood Yakubu, said Nigerians should expect the best out of INEC with the full complement of its commissioners.   JUST IN: Court orders forfeiture of 10 properties, funds…     BREAKING: Aisha Buhari makes historic visit to Senate…     Police arrest three men for gang-rape   “Well, it’s a good day for the Commission, with the swearing in of the six National Commissioners, we have the full complements of 12 National Commissioners. It’s coming three days to by-elections in four states of the Federation and as we plan for the Ekiti and Osun governorship elections. “As we continue to prepare for the 2023 general elections, we’ll go on firing on all cylinders now that we have the full complement of commissioners and Nigerians should expect the best out of the Commission,” he said. Immediately after the ceremony, President Buhari proceeded with the weekly virtual FEC meeting. The Ministers at present at the meeting include Chibuike Amaechi (Transportation); Lai Mohammed (Information and Culture); Senator Chris Ngige (Labour and Employment); Festus Keyamo (Minister of State, Labour and Employment); Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu (Science and Technology Innovation), his state counterpart Mohammed Abdullahi; Uchechukwu Ogar (State, Mines and Steel Development); Olamilekan Adegbite (Mines and Steel);Abubakar Aliyu (Minister of Power) and his state counterpart Jeddy Agba; Babatunde Fashola (Works and Housing); Clement Agba (Minister of State Budget and National Planning). The Head of Service Folashade Yemi-Esan and other Ministers were attending the meeting virtually from their various offices in Abuja The council is expected to deliberate on memos emanating from the various Ministers in attendance for approval.