Veteran comic actor, Victor Osuagwu has asked the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to arrest the ‘Federal Government’ over the importation of toxic petrol. In a 2-minute-51second video on his Instagram page, the comic act highlighted the damages that Nigerians have incurred as a result of purchasing and using the adulterated fuel. He also wondered who would take care of the damages caused by the product. Osuagwu maintained that the anti-graft agency does not question the poor in the society about how they survive but only goes after those advancing in the world of business. Speaking in Pidgin, he said: “It’s time the EFCC arrested the Federal Government. What did I say? I said it’s high time the EFCC arrested the Federal Government. - Advertisement - “It’s not just to go about arresting people who only sprayed money. Or someone doing business, any kind of business you people claim not to know his source of income. You just proceed to arrest the person and quiz him about his source of income. “I have never seen EFCC arrest beggar on the street or those ones who keep knocking on your door when you’re driving and begging you for something. Why not also go and arrest and ask them, “What is the source of your begging?”   Gunmen kill Kaduna’s MDA Director     My intelligent daughters didn’t take after you,…     DJ Cuppy proposes valentine date to Ibadan-based man   “Or you see a woman with a baby on the street begging. Or a man who is mad and naked on the street. You go and ask him what is the source of his madness. Nobody has done that. “Now, look at the fuel. Look at the petroleum they imported for us. Now, cars are scattering, trucks are scattering. Generation is being damaged. In fact there’s war in…this petroleum problem, I don’t know how we would go about solving it. It has scattered my brother’s, mine and sister’s. It has also scattered that of the Uber drivers. Now, if you call the Bolt drivers, you will hear, “My car has a problem, I can’t move.” Still charging the EFCC to go on an arresting spree, the funnyman said: “EFCC, I am giving you the order to go for mass arrest. Let it be festival of arrest. Arrest the man they call ‘Federal Government’. After you’ve arrested them, arrest the department. Be it technical or any other branch of it. “Because, if you have to go purchase something, you would check if it is good or not. Or you taste it, put it inside that place, taste it as it’s fuel to know if it’s good or not. You people just went and imported something that has been scattering everything. “All the damages of cars, trucks, generators and the likes that have been incurred, who will take care of them? “That is why I am giving the order. Proceed immediately to arrest the man they call ‘Federal Government.’ If you see the man, arrest him and say I sent you to. “And I do not want a situation where I will have to wear boxers and start protesting on the street.” He wrapped up his speech with a short song and said; “man na mumu.” Osuagwu captioned the video: “EFCC Must Arrest Dat Man Called Federal Government aka FG. For Importation of Wawawa Fuel. I, Mannamumu Gave D Order. #mannamumu #onukwube #thingscannotbethesame.”