Last Friday, I read an article about Time to Talk Day on Thursday, February 3 marking what was described as United Kingdom’s biggest mental health conversation. Time to Talk Day is the initiative of Mind, the United Kingdom mental health charity and Rethink Mental Health. Hannah Storm, co-founder of Headlines Network in her article quoted Paul Farmer the CEO of Mind to have said “We all have mental health and by talking about it we can support ourselves and others.” “The last two years have had a huge impact on us all and we know that talking can help us feel less alone, more able to cope and encouraged to seek support if we need to. However you do it, reach out and start a conversation about mental health this Time to Talk Day,” Farmer added. I wish I knew about the Day earlier and would have loved to mark it with some of the suggested ideas for talking about the crucial issue of mental health which many don’t know enough of or want to talk about. - Advertisement - Mental health according to experts is said to include our emotional, psychological, and social well-being. It also affects how we think, feel, and help determine how we handle stress, relate to others, and make choices. Undoubtedly, Mental health is important at every stage of life and unless we give it the necessary attention, we run the risk of being victims of what we are not conscious of. Perhaps because of the stigma associated with mental issues in our society, not many want to speak up about it or admit they have challenges they are struggling to overcome. For long, we have gotten used to many mental illnesses that we don’t take them seriously until people are at the end stage when it might be too late to offer any help.   Onayemi: Adieu Baba Iroyin     Key life lessons to note     Twitter: No thanks   When for example people suddenly withdrawal to themselves, we just assume they don’t want to associate with people and should be left alone. Other signs that should worry us personally or about others include Long-lasting sadness or irritability, extremely high and low moods, Excessive fear, worry, or anxieties and dramatic changes in eating or sleeping habits. However, based on our estimated population of 206 million, according to the latest data by the National Bureau Statistics, the World Health Organization (WHO claims that one in four Nigerians, an average of 50 million people, is suffering from mental illnesses and there is need to step up providing care and support for those affected. There is also the need for awareness for all to know how to pay attention to their mental health and others. In line with the focus of the  Time To Talk Day , there should be more conversation on mental health at various levels and sectors. When we sense any sign of mental health, we should ask how well people are doing. We need to be sure people are really okay and not just pretending to be. We should take people more seriously when they complain of any issue bothering them, like burnout, listen to them and ask questions. A problem shared is said to be half solved, but when people are not sure they would be heard, they would not want to talk about it. Beyond the facade of being strong-willed and being able to cope with whatever they are going through, many are hurting and need urgent help which can start with talking about it, having listening hears and getting the support they need. The economic situation in the country is hard enough for many and their families, coupled with insecurity and the not conducive work environment many are employed that can aggravate mental health of Nigerians. There is a lot to be depressed about and it’s not surprising that Nigeria is ranked 15 in the number of suicides committed per year globally. This is the more reason mental health should be taken seriously by the government and everyone.