Former Lagos governor and All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirant Asiwaju Bola Tinubu yesterday commiserated with the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar and members of his family on the death of Alhaji Hassan Danbaba, the Magajin Garin of Sokoto. The APC stalwart described the late Magajin Garin of Sokoto (Head of Sokoto Caliphate Kingmaker), as a man who devoted his life to the development of the Sokoto Caliphate and contributed immensely to the propagation of Islam in Nigeria. In statement, Tinubu’s media aide, Mr. Tunde Rahman, said the former governor, in the company of some White Cap chiefs, paid a condolence visit to the Sultan and the family of the late Magajin Garin. Tinubu was received by the former Sokoto State Governor Aliyu Wamakko, who led the delegationto the family house of the late Danbaba, where prayers were offered for the bereaved family and the repose of his soul. The statement reads: “Losing Magajin Garin at such a tender age can be painful and more hurtful that this passing came barely a year after we lost his mother, Hajiya A’ishatu, the eldest daughter of the late Ahmadu Bello. - Advertisement - “I understand your pain and I share in it. Magajin Garin was a fine gentleman and a devout Muslim who related well with all those who encountered him.”   NNPC begins 24-hour depots, retail operations to tackle…     Uzodimma seeks federal help to tackle Imo security…     Tinubu hails Balogun’s designation as in-coming Olubadan   - Advertisement - Recounting some of late Danbaba’s legacies, Tinubu said the deceased contributed immensely to the development of not only the Sokoto caliphate but also the entire country. According to him, the deceased also played a leading role in the propagation of Islam in Nigeria and beyond. He, therefore, extended his commiseration to Governor Aminu Tambuwal, the immediate family of the deceased and the entire Saudana family. The former Lagos governor prayed that Almighty Allah recognised the many good deeds of Magajin Garin for Sokoto Caliphate, Nigeria and humanity and grant him Aljanna Firdaus. “I am deeply saddened by the passing of late Danbaba, but we can’t question Allah. He gives and takes. “My prayer is that Allah Subuhanan Watahala comfort his family and all those he left behind. May He also grant his soul Aljanna Firdaus,” Tinubu said. SPONSORED