Between 1960 and now, four ruling parties – Northern Peoples Congress (NPC), National Party of Nigeria (NPN), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress (APC) – have bestrode the corridor of power in Nigeria. But, the current ruling party appears to be the most complex, disarticulated, problematic, pompous, incorrigible, disunited and disastrous. Feudalist NPC in the Sardauna Ahmadu Bello and Tafawa Balewa era was honest to itself. It did not pretend to be nationalistic. It was the Northern Peoples Congress (NPC) and not the Nigerian Peoples Congress. As a ruling party, it knew its scope and boundary. It never subscribed to any ideology. But, to foster a semblance of national unity, it sought an alliance, not a fusion, with Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe’s National Council of Nigerian Citizens (NCNC). The terms were respected between 1960 and 1966 when it was liquidated by the military. The notorious NPN of the Second Republic, despite the shenanigans of its leaders, was cohesive. Its chieftains were focused on looting Nigeria, and they did. Its National Caucus, led by Adisa Akinloye, was powerful and supreme. The PDP took off in 1998 as a marriage of conservatives and progressives. It promised to be a great party. Its foundations were laid by experienced statesmen and politicians. Its mistake was that, having been hijacked by Generals, the party hired a soldier as its presidential candidate. The rest, as it is often said, is history. What difference has APC made? What pitfalls has it avoided? Has the party learnt from history? What value has it added to the Fourth Republic? For almost two years, the party has been seized by protracted leadership squabbles. There has been no family meeting to discuss, re-assess and renew commitment. The national convention has been elusive. The generality of party members, represented by delegates, look forward to the critical reunion. It is a fundamental right of party men and women that has been denied for too long. At the convention, the party leadership is expected to tender its stewardship. If necessary, the constitution of the party may be amended during the exercise in the light of new realities. Resolutions are take on salient issues. A new National Working Committee (NEC) is selected. The new chairman unfolds his vision. The party will then face the future with hope, confidence, enthusiasm and determination, having obeyed its own constitution. APC is eight years old. But, to observers, it has not laid a good example of an ideologically inclined and refined party. The fold is perpetually assailed by cleavages. It is permanently addicted to crises. Its leadership is a source of dispute. Its conflict resolution mechanism is fragile and impotenet. The party is big, so is its headache. APC is an association of incompatible gladiators seeking political power. It is a big house of intrigues, backstabbing and bitterness. Governors, federal legislators, ministers and top board members do not see eye to eye in many state chapters. They are never in one accord. The struggle for tickets and the distribution of spoils of office induce prolonged conflicts, acrimony and discord. Party chieftains often defer to the President, who is the national leader. But the Commander-in-Chief is not a unifying factor. It is not clear whether he is still for somebody or nobody. The refrain subsists: ‘Vote for me’ at the presidential election, and in other elections, be it governorship or parliamentary, ‘vote for candidates of your choice.’ It underscores the height of hypocrisy, deception and grand endorsement of anti-party activity and indiscipline. But, unlike dictatorial former President Olusegun Obasanjo, President Muhammadu Buhari is curiously calm and less effective. He has not really oppressed party chieftains. Neither has he interfered in the politics of nominations in state chapters. It appears he has only inadvertently strengthened the cabal to oppress, intimidate and trouble the soul of the party. APC is a divided house and the strife is taking its toll on the platform. The memory of contrasting legacy parties that fused together to bring about the subtle transformation fills the consciousness of their former members, making it difficult for a new cohesive political family to function well. Chieftains only become emergency allies during electioneering. Structurally and organisationally, APC is an incomplete edifice. It is the only party without a Board of Trustees (BoT). Also, its National Caucus is dormant, perhaps, sidelined, incapacitated or disillusioned. It seems the party does not need any gerontocratic advice. To its credit, the party has surprisingly won presidential elections twice. On poll day, Nigerians had to choose between two evils – APC and PDP. A third force is somehow illusory; a figment of hyperactive imagination, an association of political jesters. It is ironic that despite its defects, APC has not recorded any major defection or decimation beyond the Rabiu Musa Kwakwanso’s challenge in Kano. It has rather continued to enlarge its coast. Many PDP leaders, including governors, have defected to the ruling party to seek refuge, not because it is better or it parades special and intimidating qualities, but just because it is the ruling party. Yet, the general opinion is that besides the transformation in railways and ongoing road construction in few parts of the country, Nigeria has nothing else to show for the APC years. Its dominance now accounts for the lean period in national history.   Electoral Act: Controversy as Buhari seeks amendment of…     Akwa Ibom: Akpanudoedehe’s delay tactics     Obasanjo the strategist   The quality of living is lamentable in this period of boring social condition. Only those in government are, to an extent, insulated from the harsh and harrowing experience. The awful picture of the dilapidated economy is frightening and worrisome. The evidence of soaring poverty is confounding. Unemployment is growing in geometric proportions. Life and property are not safe. Thus, youth migration compounds the challenge of brain drain in critical sectors. Those who lack the opportunity to move out are maladjusted. They turn to crime: internet fraud or ‘Yahoo’ business and unprecedented ritual killings. APC may also be heating up the polity through its multiple controversies. The party is rattled by its internal contradictions, held in its jugular by few actors. The hope that the party will make a difference has disappeared. In its place is despair. To the consternation of many Nigerians, APC is also not sincere about the resolution of the national question, although it set up the Nasir El-Rufai Committee on Restructuring to make some suggestions. The report is gathering dust at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja. Unless the APC-dominated National Assembly, which is reviewing the constitution, proves sceptics wrong by demonstrating courage and patriotism, the amendment may pale into an exercise in futility. The APC-led Federal Government has not done the country proud because the party’s core campaign promises, particularly economic revitalisation and security, have remained largely unfulfilled. APC is a house always trembling to fall. It may be because it could not seriously uphold some basic principles. While zoning and rotation, not only of party offices but also of its presidential ticket, has served as its pillars, foundation of theoretical unity and initial strength at its inception, the party has attempted to discard the cherished values. The result is the eclipse of fairness and justice. Although APC is a product of inter-party negotiations among the Action Congress of Nigeria (CAN), Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP), and a fraction of PDP and the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), the most dominant and influential power bloc thrown up by subsequent elections has detached from its source and forgotten its history. Governors have displaced the party’s founding fathers instead of learning from their experience. Some of them are bitter at the mention of power shift from the North to South, as originally agreed. To edge out a certain stalwart, a campaign of calumny is now brewing. Since presidential zoning and rotation cannot be jettisoned, concerted efforts are now being made by some power barons in the fold to exploit religion and erect inexplicable obstacles ahead of the succession necessity. In hush tones, they are saying the presidential ambition of Southern Muslim aspirants is an anathema because President Muhammadu Buhari is a Muslim, and a Muslim cannot succeed another Muslim. The bad and illogical campaign is targeted at one man who has clearly become a moving train. Party handlers, working in concert with some governors, have succeeded in postponing the convention three times. They could only pull the brake during the week, due to the warning that an implosion was imminent. Nigerians should know now why the country is in deep mess under the current regime. Can those who cannot manage the affairs of their party effectively manage the affairs of the country? So ‘meticulous’ is the APC handler-turned undertaker that he ‘strategically’ fixed the convention for February 26 so that the plan could hit the rock, especially when it was public knowledge that the umpire had planned to conduct by-elections in some states on the same day. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), which is busy with the preparations, could not have failed to direct the attention of the inept and sit-tight caretaker committee to the proposed polls. Thus, the exercise had to be shifted, because it was planned to be postponed. APC is still grappling with the effects of rancorous state congresses in some states. The chapters are polarised. Although the Ahmed Reconciliation Committee has visited the divided chapters, the hope of peaceful settlement is still slim. Another reason tendered by the committee was that zonal congresses should precede the convention. It took more than a year for the APC interim leadership to realise that certain activities should herald the convention and that the selection of zonal leaders is key.