“Whosever neglects learning in his youth, loses the past and is dead forever,” Euripedes Sooner or later, the two girls will encounter Charles Dickens’ Oliver Twist. It is the English author’s first major novel and it unspools the toils and degrading squalor of a little boy in a London workhouse. Written with pathos and detail in the fashion of a new tradition called the social novel, Dickens’ tale troubled Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin, who wanted to know if the novelist narrated the experience of a real person in the labour underworld of Victorian England. In the case of the BOS of Lagos, he sees it himself. If Baldwin does not connect to the entrails of his city, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s antenna is high, his eyes and heart on the street. Hence on his way to launch a programme to help kids and oldies in the lower stratum, he freezes his convoy. He steps out of the vehicle for a business with two girls, Amarachi Chinedu, 9, and Suwebat Husseini, 12. It is about 11 am. They are not in school on a weekday. Both bear buckets on their heads when the same heads should worry over a math puzzle or a word or even a social studies question on the name of the governor of Lagos State or the location of Kano State. Rather, their minds focus on beans and pepper and the geography of the grinder. How heavy is the bucket, how hot the pepper, how smooth the grinding, and what kind of akara will shape out for the palate after a sojourn on the frying pan? That is the education, or the mockery of it?  Amarachi is probably missing her classmates. Her memory is ebbing, all that math, all that English, all that high score? All gone because mama, a teacher, has no money. - Advertisement - Better not to light up their minds in the four walls of a classroom but trudge under the budding tyranny of a sun? She has to work with Suwebat. No need to hear the teacher’s lessons, or ogle their fellow pupils in neat, starched uniforms. Both lend ears to the snarl of an engine and the ambient chatter of local gossip and vulgar spouts. In a 21st century, she downgrades from the technology of the click to the mournful wail of a Neanderthal device. Amarachi has had a taste. But what of Suwebat, the Jigawa native is a victim of gender bias. The parents want her home so the boys, four in all, can dwell in the light. The boys are in school. The girl will be blessed as keeper of home. The scenario? Maybe, in a few years, she will master the akara or kosei so well as to tease and please the taste bud of a suitor. The BOS of Lagos will not have that. He says they must be at school. Suwebat can start. Even though her mates are already in the secondary school, knowledge cannot be too late. Knowledge is a harlot. You can meet her in the morning or in the twilight. Suwebat is lucky. It is not just the education she will get. She is getting a full-blooded mentorship from the governor and first lady. They will learn, they will burst into the light, they will become women, and it all begins with a seed from a man who decided not just to ride in luxury but look out the window. But more issues arise from this. First is the point that these two girls are not of Lagos origin. The governor does not see Igbo in the case of Amarachi, or Hausa-Fulani in the story of Suwebat. He sees Nigerians under his tutelage, human beings he does not want to fall into routine and rut. As we enter a political season, this is a cautionary tale. It brings in context the need to know that we all belong to one commonwealth, and our wealth is only real if we do not see others as common. It takes what the Yoruba call omoluabi to translate knowledge into empathy.   Two kinsmen     Between Et tu and etutu     A Lagos original   Secondly, we notice that both are girls. It reflects the bias against female in this society. We often emphasise the girl child problem as a northern jab. But Amarachi is no better than the northerner. Suwebat’s case highlights the northern disdain of the girl. The boys are in school to fulfil a patriarchal ideology. Boys first, or boys only. Boys will lead, girls will wed. Boy becomes mensch, girl wench. Boys rise, girls wife. That is not the future we seek. That is what BOS has noted. In Dickens Dombey and Son, Paul Dombey names his behemoth of a business after his son, unborn, even though he has a daughter. In the end, it is the daughter, the tale’s heroine, who saves his father from her towering ruins. Again, it shows the perennial motif of poverty in our society. Many parents do not see the world as some in the big cars and posh suburbs know. They live for the day. Amarachi’s mother teaches but she has to live one day at a time. Such a life shrugs off dreams. That dream, however, was reborn with a visit. Amarachi’s case reminds us of the growing contempt for public school. Mama prefers her daughter out of private school than in a free public school. The governor took advantage of that episode to evangelise public schools noting a lot of the state’s investment in that sector. Some of them are better than many private ones. It is not perfect yet, but the story raises awareness why some of the virtues of Lagos schools must become front burner. We cannot forget the governor’s gesture as a score for public charity. We hear over time the debate as to which is better, private benevolence or public good. Both have their places. An act of public charity, especially of this sort, will spur others. It is an example in being your neighbour’s keeper. The incident last week of Rayan, the five-year-old boy who gripped the world over rescue efforts from the well is an example of the value of one person. The nation’s monarch followed the event, townsfolk waited with bated breath, television networks kept an eagle eye, social media buzzed. The government deployed men, kept a 24-hour vigil, supplied water and oxygen, they mobilised cranes to dig and change the earth around him. It was a tragedy he died. But the effort and resources for one person show that everyone counts. That was Governor Sanwo-olu’s message. The girls may be inventors, presidents, governors, writers, singers or philanthropists tomorrow. The governor wanted them to, in the words of Emerson, “live the life you imagined.” That dream had its first wing that morning.   Audacity of Udom Umo Eno is a trending name in Akwa Ibom today. But that is because the governor, Udom Emmanuel, broke the pod for the 2023 guber race as the first governor to name his pick as successor. I call it an audacity. Governors tend to take the path of hypocrisy, playing a cloak and dagger game, while mobilising for their favorite sons. Governor Emmanuel has no patience for such underground ploy. He called a stakeholders meeting and identified Eno, his commissioner for lands and water resources, as the man of the moment. Some, who would have prefered to be anointed, have gone up in arms, predictably. A man has a right to say who he wants to succeed him. If you have a legacy, as he has aplenty, you cannot be indifferent to who you think can lift that legacy to a higher pedestal. It is hypocrisy not to express it. His pick will go through the grill of the primary process and then the polls. Governor Emmanuel has not foreclosed others in a tumult of rage from running. So, it is a fair game. It is called democracy. Other governors who are rounding off their tenures can follow his lead.