A real estate group, Perfection Real Estate Group has reeled out plans to raise about one million high networth individuals in Nigeria through its various platforms by year 2030. At the recent conference held at Lagos Resource Centre, participants were introduced to various platforms on how to become great investors in real estate whereby they would be able to grow and multiply their wealth through real estate and other income generating assets and systems. The Director of Business Perfection Real Estate Group, Mrs. Tinu Olayemi said: “In going about our vision and mission, we understand that coming to the real estate sector is to create wealth. Real estate sector is capital intensive. We help people to participate regardless of socio-economic status, leveraging on numbers when we come together. “The goal of this conference is to help people grow, invest their money and to become financially free, and by the year 2030 through this conference we should be able to raise 1million high networth individuals in the country.” Also speaking, the Chief Executive Officer, Perfection Real Estate Group, Mr. Niyi Adeleye in his remarks said, “I’m always happy when I see people doing well. I’ve a mandate to make people have high networth before 2030. All high networth individuals make a lot of money, they invest a lot of money, they grow their money and multiply it. - Advertisement - “It takes smart work to make a lot of money. It is hard work, plus people and the system. Everything we do as humans, depends on real estate. It is actually life, and without real estate, I don’t know how we can survive.” Adeleye noted that the organisation’s vision is to empower people through real estate.   Woman killed as low voter turnout mars FCT council election     Alleged N5b fraud: Why ex-JAMB Registrar Ojerinde’s…     Why Nigeria’s debt servicing is growing, by DMO   “The organisation has various platforms including perfection real estate group, wealth platform (real estate wealth club, investment vehicles), trade platform, empowerment platform (ambassadorship programme). He further disclosed that the organisation’s housing scheme is based in Ibeju-lekki, Ikorodu and it would also start on the mainland this year. One of the guest speakers, Joseph Ayeni, CEO of Cerebral Thrust, in his virtual presentation titled “mindset is everything”, explained that the mind is one of the greatest gifts from God. He said “your perspective is your mindset. Your mindset is a product of development. Changing one’s mindset is a direct influence to one’s networth.” “Seperate yourself, recalibrate your mind, have willpower, come up with a disciplined plan, come up with a daily routine, you’ve to do at least two/three hours of content on a daily basis.” Ayeni advised. The Legal director, Perfection Real Estate Group, Mr. Celestine Nwankwo who anchored the conference, reiterated that the introduction of the high networth individuals conference will help empower people through real estate. Similarly, another speaker, Mercy Ezenwa, the MD/CEO of Kangen Water Machines Limited, Chezmeafis Ventures spoke on blockchain technology in real estate, disclosing how blockchain can help generate funds for one for a lifetime. SPONSORED