MRS ANEKE: I will like to thank The Nation  and PenCom. This is because at, last, my late husband’s pension benefit has been paid. My tears have been wiped off my face. My late husband worked in the Aviation Authority before he passed on. He died on October 5, 2019 and we were sent out of the official quarters  on April 3, 2020. His benefit was with First Guaranty Pension Limited. I really suffered with my children. But the newspaper came to my assistance. May God continue to bless you for your kindness. THE NATION: We are happy your pension benefit has been paid. We are poised to put smiles on the face of pensioners and their next-of-kin who encounter challenges in getting their  benefits. ANNONYMOUS: I am a retired police officer. Sometime last year, I applied for the payment of the arrears of 2.5 per cent approved by the President to federal ministries/parastatals pensioners, which was not paid to some of us under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). - Advertisement - I read in The Nation that the benefit has been paid to our PFAs through PenCom. But to my dismay, Premium Pension, my PFA, has not implemented the payment. Please, can I know why we have not been paid? HUSSAINI: Good day, Omobola. My name is Hussaini. I was a staff member of Revenue Mobilisation Allocation & Fiscal Commission. I retired on February 1, 2021. I was verified on November18, 2021 and issued with the Retirement Benefit Enrolment Slip. My questions are: When am I going to collect my lumpsum and start receiving my monthly pension? Am I going to be paid monthly pension arrears with effect from February 2021? ANNONYMOUS: How long does it take to transfer Accrued Pension Rights to PFA’s RSA? Thanks. ATINSHOLA: My name is Atinshola. I resigned from Sterling Bank. 2018. Twenty-five per cent of my pension was paid immediately and another 25 per cent when I was 50 by Crusader Sterling Pension. I need my pension manager to pay my balance to fund my children education, house rents and attend to my domestics needs. ANNONYMOUS: Good day, Crusader Pension is frustrating me because I demanded that my funds be transferred to another pension manager. It asked me to give them a month notice and rejected the letter from TrustFund from my new pension until a month. Kindly advise me. SUPOL BROWNSON: Hello, I am Supol Brownson, a retired Assistant  Superintendent of Police (ASP). I retired on April 4, 2019 and was verified by PenCom officials at the University of Port Harcourt. It’s two years and eight months after, yet no payment. Please help me.   Valentine: Heirs Life to celebrate couples with new product     Pensioners seek 100 % benefit     Plan your estate, Leadway urges   - Advertisement - SHIDALI: Good day, I appreciate the good work you for retirees. I did my verification with my PFA-Leadway Pensure. After that, I was sent   some money as my closing balance. Later,  a smaller amount was paid in. I want to know about the balance. I look forward to hearing from you. Thank you. MRS OKON: I am Mrs. Okon. Before I retired on  September 25, 2020, I took a promotion interview to Director in the Federal Civil Service. The result came in last year. I have done the verification in my former office. Please how do I upgrade my pension? ANNONYMOUS: As a pension reform Act 2004, my complaint is that I have received a congratulatory message from my PFA, Fidelity Pension Manager, Ilorin on my birthday. I am 50 but my payment has not been remitted to my RSA. BROWN: My name is Brown. I was born on February 19, 1965 and retired from the Nigerian Customs Service on August 6, 2016. My PFA is Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers Limited. I am scared of hunger after serving my fathers’ land without blemish. Please help to expedite action on the payment of my benefit. DANIEL: My name is Daniel and  am a next-of-kin to Mrs Grace, who died in active service after over 10 years at the Federal Polytechnic, Idah in February 2015. I received some amount my UBA account as her RSA contribution with Sigma Pensions. We are awaiting her death/life assurance benefit. ANNONYMOUS: Good day, please when will those of us who retired last year get our lumpsum? Thank you. ALAKE: Hello, my name is Alake, a retiree of the Lagos State University (LASU). l retired on February 20, 2021 and my pension administrator is NUPEMCO. By February 20, this year, it was a year since I quit service. l have submitted  the required documents. I was only told to be patient without nothing for sustenance. Please help me. Thank you. IZUATA: My name is, a retired Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP). I was paid a pitiable amount as lump sum while junior officers who went to PenCom’s office were paid higher. I am bedridden. I am using this forum to appeal to PenCom management to pay me the accrued sum to enable me build a house before I die. THE NATION: The newspaper will intervene. Therefore, Hussaini, Atinshola, Supol Brownson, Shidal, Mrs Okon, Brown, Daniel, Alake and ASP Izuata should look out for the newspaper next week for responses from PenCom. SPONSORED