Finally, Watford threw a punch and it landed. Little wonder their travelling supporters celebrated wildly when Emmanuel Dennis nodded Ismaïla Sarr’s late cross past Emi Martínez; 440 minutes had passed since they last felt euphoria. On an afternoon where one goals always felt like being enough, it earned a precious three points. Roy Hodgson’s side are still embroiled in a relegation scrap but there were flickers of hope for the first time in a while. The worry in recent weeks had not been Watford jabs missing, but a complete inability to throw them. Instead, they had taken blows on what is admittedly a much strong chin of late, praying to avoid a knockout.   My lawyers studying situation for next line of action…     EMMA RADUCANU: I feel most empowered when I step out on…     ‘Edouard Mendy is a monster’   Dennis himself has been guilty, but his ninth goal of the campaign ensured it would not be a dozen league games without a win. Crazily Watford’s last six top flight away victories have come under the same number of managers. “I was pleased with our composure on the ball,” said Hodgson. “We showed a lot more confidence to get on the ball, to pass the ball, to look to create chances. The balance between attack and defence was better.” Aston Villa fans will be puzzled as to what happened to the razor-sharp attacking instincts that saw them put three past Leeds ten days before. Ben Foster will scarcely ‘earn’ a more comfortable Premier League clean sheet. “We need to wake up and wake up fast,” said Steven Gerrard. “Our recent performances are way short of what is needed.” - Advertisement - After last week’s tepid display at Newcastle, Gerrard made clear he expected a rapid start. What he got was zippy and adventurous but missing quality. He had hinted at a much-changed line-up but in the end there was just one; Danny Ings for Ollie Watkins. Ings had a shot blocked by Craig Cathcart inside the opening minute before winning a corner under pressure from Samir. Replays brought audible dissatisfaction from the majority of Villa Park but VAR did not overturn the decision. Gerrard refused to clutch at straws. SPONSORED