House of Representatives member Anayo Nwonu is a governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ebonyi State. He spoke with reporters in Lagos on his agenda and plans for the primary. Deputy Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU was there. Why do you want to be governor of Ebonyi State? Political activities are picking up in our country as various political leaders interested in serving our nation in various capacities have commenced consultations with the people and critical stakeholders within the polity. This interface with the Fourth Estate of the realm is therefore part of my consultations with those who will help shape my agenda to build a prosperous inclusive Ebonyi State in which no one is left behind. By the grace of God and the will of the people, I will be coming into office as governor in 2023 at a critical phase in our socio-economic evolution when Ebonyi state like the rest of the nation is facing profound challenges. These extraordinary times require a focused, steady and compassionate leadership. This is what I intend to offer. I will be a servant leader of the people,  an astute manager of the resources of the state and a change agent who will put the people first at all times. - Advertisement - The challenges we face today require a leader with compassion, a leader who knows and understands Ebonyi State and her people. The future of our state requires a clear vision of the present and a clear path to a glorious future that works for everyone. If given the opportunity, I will lead from the front from the first day. I will be in the trenches on daily basis fighting for the masses. My mission is to restore the lost dignity of Ebonyi person. The Ebonyi State Economic Development Masterplan is a strategic document my team and I have put together to address the present challenges with the aim of repositioning the state to achieve an all-inclusive growth and prosperity. This vision rests on the achievement of these cardinal objectives and much more: What is your plan for Human Capital Development? The Ebonyi State Economic Development Masterplan (2023-2027) will be driven by an open, transparent, inclusive and accountable plan committed to Human Capacity Development. Human Capacity Development (HDI) of Nigeria is the index used by the United Nations to measure progress of the country which was put at 0.539 in 2019 which leaves it in 161 on the table of 189 countries. The HDI measures long term progress in 3 critical areas of human development: a long and healthy life, access to knowledge and a decent standard of living. The significance of the concept of human capital in generating long-term economic development of the nation cannot be neglected. It is expected that the macroeconomic policies of all the nations, especially labour surplus countries, are focused towards promotion of human development and subsequently economic development. My plan shall be focused on these key drivers:  Education, Health and Job Creation/Enterprise Development. Our strategic partners will include; Relevant Federal MDAs; State Ministries of Education and Health; Development and Donor Agencies; Private Schools and Hospitals; Communities and Churches; Organised Private Sector What is your agenda for dducation? Education is one of the critical drivers of my economic blueprint. Under my plan, the state shall invest to significantly increase the number of secondary school enrolment and that of primary schools in my first four years. The infrastructure in our  number of public primary  and  secondary schools shall be paid full attention to ensure conducive learning environment and qualified teachers. My blueprint for the state aims  to renovate all public secondary schools within this period. This shall in turn require an increase in the number of certified teachers to meet the new demand. Payment, promotion and training of teachers shall be of utmost importance as well as pensioners shall be giving due attention. The inspectorate department of Ebonyi State Ministry of Education shall be empowered to effectively discharge its role in regulating standards. The Ebonyi State University, Ebonyi      State College of Education, Ikwo and College of Health Sciences shall be sufficiently funded. Their faculties and curriculum shall also be aligned with the state’s competitive advantages in agriculture, extractive resources and tourism/hospitality. The new administration shall revive the abandoned postgraduate scholarship programmes for deserving students in critical areas of studies and shall award   foreign post-graduate scholarships yearly to deserving citizens in areas of dire need. The state shall also expose suitable candidates to access other scholarships offered by the Petroleum Technology Development Fund, Niger Delta Development Commission, British Chevening scholars etc. How would you tackle the challenges of the health sector?   I will make a difference, if elected president, says Dauda     ‘Owan Federal Constituency deserves better representation’     2023: Intrigues as PDP govs, presidential aspirants battle…   My plan seeks increased investment in health infrastructure and resources.  Our aim if elected shall be not only to increase the number of general hospitals but to ensure maintenance, presence of doctors and other professionals to attend to the health needs of citizens. We will  ensure that every LGA has at least one fully functional secondary health care institution in the state. Government shall aim to equip these general hospitals with surgical resources and ensure the provision of diagnostic and pharmaceutical services as practiced in civilised climes like the United Kingdom. The number of Primary Health Centres (PHC) shall be increased such that there is an available PHC every 30 minutes walking distance. The Infant Mortality rate (IMR) shall be reduced  while the Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR) shall also be reduced drastically. The new administration shall increase the number of doctors and professional health workers in the sector by improving enrolment/facilities in College of Health Science EBSU and in the Schools of Nursing and Midwifery. Many youths of Ebonyi are jobless. How would you provide jobs for them? Job creation is one of  the cardinal objectives of my economic development masterplan and the aim is to create over 30,000 skilled and unskilled jobs through the Foreign Direct Investment/Domestic Direct Investment drive for industrialisation. The vision of this Ebonyi State Economic Development Masterplan is to attract investments particularly into those industries (agriculture, extractive and tourism) that represent the state’s competitive advantage. Existing companies in Ebonyi State shall be encouraged to create more jobs through tax incentives which will enable them undertake expansion of their businesses in the State. The government shall invest in training school leavers and graduates in information technology and other basic skills thereby improving their competitiveness and guaranteeing their employability. A N3billion funding window shall be created through the Microfinance and Enterprise Development Agency (MEDA) to leverage on the opportunities provided by the Central Bank of Nigeria, Bank of Industry, Development Bank of Nigeria and other development institutions to finance Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises within the State. As an outcome these collaborations will support 5000 SMEs and, in particular, enable as many start-ups as possible yearly. The process of identifying, selecting, refining and incubating prospective start-ups shall be transparent and independent. Agriculture was the mainstay of Nigeria’s economy before the discovery of crude oil. From 1970 to late 2000s, the sector’s contribution to GDP and export earnings steadily declined, because the country’s focus shifted to petroleum exploration. The recent fall in crude oil prices has triggered debates around the role of agriculture in economic diversification. Ebonyi state land mass is nearly 100 percent arable and the state enjoys an all-year rainfall. The state is among the highest producers of rice, palm oil and cassava. My economic blueprint has plans to mechanise agriculture and introduce profitable and convenient modern farming techniques like the cultivation of yam in sacks and modify same for other essential crops. Strong collaborations will be established with CBN to enable Ebonyi farmers leverage the bank’s most important agricultural initiatives – the Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing Model for Agricultural Financing (NIRSAL), the Commercial Agriculture Credit Scheme (CACS), the Real Sector Support Fund (RSSF), and the Anchor Borrowers Programme, all of which unlock low interest finance. In line with its value chain approach, this Economic Development Masterplan shall ensure that Ebonyi State attracts domestic and foreign manufacturers to invest in the state and to create value addition across the most profitable segments: Investors shall supply high yield seedlings to farmers; Investors shall guarantee the off-take of all harvests; Ebonyi State shall strengthen its agricultural extension capabilities to support farmers especially in adopting better farming techniques; LGAs shall support farmers to organise themselves into cooperative societies that can procure, maintain and deploy tractors and other mechanised farming equipment as well as fertilisers; Ebonyi State shall support cooperative societies to obtain international product certifications; Ebonyi State shall provide cooperative societies market information and enable them to establish market linkages; Ebonyi State shall construct rural roads for easy evacuation of harvests; Investors shall establish food-processing factories in Ebonyi State thereby reducing the raw-finished food export ratio. Any plan for industrialisation?  We have the extractive industry. This industry involves the removal of aggregates, minerals and metals from the ground. Under the Nigerian Constitution every mineral belongs to the Federal Government. The Federal Ministry of Solid Minerals exercises this power through the grant of Prospecting and Mining Leases. Ebonyi State is home to several solid mineral resources. These include lead/zinc, crude oil, natural gas, marble, limestone, granite, salt and gypsum. Ebonyi State shall undertake the following steps: build a strong working relationship with the relevant Federal Ministry; document and disseminate information on the mineral deposits in Ebonyi State; Engage Nigerian and Foreign Missions to enlighten foreign businesses on the rich mineral deposits in Ebonyi State; encourage major domestic mining, construction and cement manufacturing companies to open quarries and factories in Ebonyi State; Support the fast track of applications from prospective investors; enable peaceful community – investor relationship; and Improve ease in land acquisition. How would you develop the tourism potentials of the state? Tourism is simply travel for pleasure or business. It has become an important source of revenue and also creates employment opportunities in the service sector. Modern tourism is closely linked to development and encompasses a growing number of new destinations. The connected hospitality industry comprising airlines, cruise ships, trains, taxis, hotels and entertainment also benefits from tourism. The United Nation World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) forecasts a growth in international tourist arrivals in 2018. In 2016, Africa held   a 5.1 percent share in worldwide tourism arrivals, and a 3.0 percent share of worldwide tourism receipts. Destinations with the strongest growth in international arrivals compared to 2015 were Sierra Leone, Nigeria, Burundi, Eritrea, Togo, and Madagascar. The number of arrivals   in   South   Africa   and Morocco were each in excess of ten million. In 2017, direct travel and tourism employment in Africa increased. Ebonyi State shall leverage the United Nations World Tourism Organisation technical capabilities especially in tourism destination planning and management. This Economic Development Masterplan identifies many tourist sites and proposes that these sites be first evaluated, categorised (culinary, culture, eco, medical, heritage and event), developed and integrated. The development of the sites shall be predicated on a best business model that leverages on direct investment and sustainable profitability. My administration will create a Tourism Bureau to drive this impetus and a new faculty in the existing Ebonyi State tertiary institutions dedicated for studies in tourism. Let me remind you that what I have done is to offer you glimpses of some critical areas of my economic development masterplan which I believe will set Ebonyi State on the irrevocable road to prosperity. My plan is exhaustive and includes other critical areas such as security, industrialisation, infrastructural development, urban renewal, power, etc. In the coming days, my campaign will be shedding more light on these strategic plans for our people. Thank you for listening.