A cab-hailing driver, Japhet Egbede, emerged the 15th car winner in the subscriber appreciation promo across the nation. With the presentation of prizes to the final set of winners, Globacom fulfilled its pledge to give out 500,000 prizes to its subscribers in commemoration of its 18th anniversary. Regional Sales Manager, Lagos, Olumide Oguntimehin, said: “From Lagos to Enugu, Port Harcourt to Kaduna, Abuja to Jos, Benin to Warri, Ibadan to Ilorin, and Onitsha to other cities, we held prize-presentation ceremonies to hand over the items won to the winners and put smiles on the faces of our subscribers and their families.” The car keys were handed to the winner by Oguntimehin and Lagos House of Assembly representing Oshodi-Isolo Constituency 1, Hon Jude Emeka Idimogu. The winner declared: “Globacom has empowered me. I now have a brand new car for my cab business and would no longer need to rent and pay for a car to use on weekly basis. I am grateful to Globacom, the caring network, taking care of Nigerians”. - Advertisement - He added: “Globacom is hundred percent Nigerian and we are proud of them. They have employed Nigerians and are empowering others from time to time.   Tax returns: FIRS begins probe of big companies     Nigerians to pay more for chicken, fish     CITITRUST Holdings goes public   ” I will continue to patronise them, and I urge all Nigerians to do so. They have done excellently .” 73 other subscribers also received refrigerators, television sets and power generators at the final presentation ceremony at the Gloworld, Adeola Odeku, Victoria Island, Lagos outlet. Winners of the 23 television sets, 25 refrigerators and 23 Generators appreciated Globacom for the prizes. A commercial officer with Nigeria Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) who won a refrigerator, Taiwo Kekereowo, said: “A big thank you to Globacom.This is the first time I am winning a prize in a promo. More blessings to the ever-giving network” while a television winner, Maria Abidakun, a cleric with Celestial Church of Christ in Ikorodu who promised to donate it to the children’s section of the church said : “God bless Globacom, they will continue to grow and excel”. A refrigerator winner, 39-year-old Kehinde Oyewole, a Lagos-based business woman, said: “I have been on the Glo network since 2003, and I don’t have any regret till today. It has been a good network, providing good services and helping Nigerians. This is very kind of them”. The event was witnessed by Nollywood actors including Yemi Solade and Uche Nwaefuna as well as comedian Godwin Komone popularly known as Gordons. Others were musician and entertainer, Teni Apata aka Teni Makanaki, Glo business partner and Managing Director of Mishab Ideals Limited, Mrs. Betsy Iheabunike, Council Leader, Eti-osa LCDA, Mr Suleiman Owolabi, and Kaosara Olaleye of Iru-Victoria Island LCDA.