The succession plan by the Akwa Ibom State Governor, Emmanuel Udom, appears to have thrown the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in the state in disarray, reports Assistant Editor, ‘Dare Odufowokan, reports. The simmering crisis rocking Akwa Ibom State chapter of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is deepening as more party chieftains are taking sides in the face-off that followed Governor Udom Emmanuel’s public endorsement of a successor last week. Sources within the ruling party told our correspondent that the PDP in the south-south state is gradually being divided into two factions ahead of the 2023 general elections in the state. “What started as grumbling last week after Governor Emmanuel made a public show of declaring one of his commissioners as his preferred successor has gradually degenerated into a serious crisis that is threatening to divide the party into two. We now have those who are supporting the governor’s decision and those who are strongly opposed to his choice of successor. And I can tell you that it is getting more worrisome by the day,” our source said. Governor Emmanuel ended months of speculations and permutations over his succession plan with the announcement of one of his cabinet members, Pastor Umo Eno, as his preferred successor as governor in 2023. He made the announcement at a PDP stakeholders’ meeting at Government House Lodge, Uyo.  Emmanuel announced Eno, current Commissioner for Lands and Water Resources, as his preferred PDP candidate for the 2023 gubernatorial election in the state. The governor’s anointed candidate was thereafter presented to the PDP stakeholders by former Governor Victor Attah, according to reports of the parley. Confirming the reports, the Chief Press Secretary/Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on media, Mr. Ekerete Udoh, said: “Absolutely true, yes. At the PDP stakeholders’ meeting, His Excellency announced Mr. Umo Eno as the preferred candidate to succeed him. And he was thereafter presented to the PDP stakeholders by former Gov. Victor Attah. So, that is true.” - Advertisement - But it seems not all stakeholders of the PDP in the state are on the same page with the governor in his decision to anoint Eno. Specifically, some other chieftains of the party who are interested in the governorship ticket of the ruling party are said to be poised for a showdown with the governor over his choice of Eno. “The party is divided and things are likely to get worse in the days and weeks to come. The unity and peace of our party is threatened,” a party official lamented. Already, former Speaker of the Akwa-Ibom House of Assembly and Chairman of the House of Representatives’ Committee on Judiciary, Hon. Onofiok Luke, has announced his readiness to confront the governor all the way over what he described as the undemocratic endorsement of an aspirant over and above other chieftains of the party by the governor who should ordinarily play the role of a father to all and encourage a level playing ground in the contest. The federal legislator, who has declared his interest in the PDP governorship ticket, according to reports, stormed out of the stakeholders’ meeting after the endorsement of Eno. Reports also have it that not less than two members of the state cabinet absented themselves from the stakeholders’ meeting on account of their objection to Governor Emmanuel’s plan to unveil Eno as his preferred successor at the event.   Growing objections Like most of the gubernatorial aspirants seeking the ticket of the PDP in the state, Hon. Luke, who said he was not aware of the agenda of the stakeholders’ meeting but attended to honour the governor’s invitation, said the action of the governor amounts to an imposition of a particular aspirant on the party and as such, cannot be allowed to stand. According to him, even if the governor desires a consensus candidate, he ought not to have gone about it the way he did. “I’m not against their endorsement; and I’m not against the elders of the state. But I’m saying the endorsement could have happened after proper consultation. I went to Obong Attah and asked him why didn’t you talk to all of us who are in this race? Why didn’t you talk to Senator Bassey Albert? Why didn’t you talk to Akan Udofia? Why didn’t you talk to Akan Okon? Why didn’t you talk to James Iniama? It was Obong Attah that made the presentation, not the gov­ernor. “We would have loved their endorsement but that would have been after due consultation. But whoever they would endorse should be the choice of the majority of people in the state. So, for me as Onofiok Akpan Luke, I am in the governorship race. I am going to stand election on the platform of my party, the PDP. I am not part of that endorse­ment at all,” Luke said while insisting that he will not give up his gubernatorial aspiration on the platform of the PDP. Another guber aspirant of the party told our correspondent that it is wrong of the governor to have said God revealed to him to choose Eno as his successor. “The governor wants Eno and he want to enthrone him as a stooge so as to continue governing by proxy. His action is causing crisis in the party. Eno is so unpopular. He has been working on the Eno project for months now and they already have a political structure called ‘Maintain Peace Movement’ to mobilise support for him. Warning Governor Emmanuel to rescind his decision in the interest of the party, our source claimed the governor will not succeed in foisting Eno on the party. “We all know the governor doesn’t have full control of the PDP in Akwa-Ibom state. The likes of Onofiok Luke, Senator Bassey Akpan and my good self are the ones our people know at the grassroots. And we have resolved to fight him till the very end until he stops this anomaly,” he vowed. Similarly, a group, under the aegis of Akwa Ibom State Council of Ministers, asked Emmanuel to withdraw his endorsement of Eno. The President of Akwa Ibom Council of Ministers, Apostle Joseph Nyong, and Secretary, Apostle Elijah Usoh, said Emmanuel never displayed equity and fairness in the endorsement. The group insisted that Emmanuel’s endorsement amounted to imposition and outsmarting of the majority of Akwa Ibom people.   Ekiti APC guber primaries: The claims, the law and the…     Ekiti 2022: Bamidele makes U-turn on challenging APC guber…     Akwa Ibom APC stakeholders urge Akpanudoedehe to contest…    “Such endorsement does not only smack of imposition and direct affront on the political will of majority of Akwa Ibom people but it is also a clear violation of the longstanding and immutable zoning arrangements in the state. The governor should search for his successor from Itu-Ibiono Ibom Federal Constituency in the interest of peace, equity and fair play. There is no gainsaying the fact that it is only Itu/Ibiono Ibom Federal Constituency that has yet to produce the governor of all federal constituencies within Uyo Senatorial District. It is therefore equitable and fair that it should be micro zoned to the federal constituency of Itu/Ibiono,” the group argued.   Dissenting opinions But some chieftains of the party are supporting the governor in his decision to back Eno for the job. Leaders of the PDP in Uyo senatorial district of the state Leaders recently threw their weight behind the governor’s succession plan. The leaders made their position known during a general meeting at the residence of late Obong Peter Ekpe Atakpo. Acting Leader of the forum, Otuekong Thomas Okon Akpan, said “Now that the governorship has returned to Uyo senatorial district after 16 years, it is imperative and important that we have to unite, close ranks, shun bickering, blackmail and self destruction and work hard to support the government of Mr. Udom Gabriel Emmanuel, dialogue with the governor on whatever affects us as a people to make sure that things are put in their proper places to avoid violence and rancour, but allow peace to reign, which is paramount for our progress and development. “Frankly speaking, Uyo Senatorial District has benefited so much from Governor Udom Emmanuel administration and this is the good reason we all must support him in his succession plan and Completion Agenda”, he said. Those who attended the meeting include the Chairman of Akwa Ibom State Roads and Other Infrastructure Maintenance Agency (AKROIMA), Prince Godwin Ntuk Udeh; Commissioners for Finance, Environment, and Economic Development/Ibom Deep Seaport, Linus Nkan, Charles Udoh and Akan Okon; a former federal lawmaker, Obong Emmanuel Obot; Mkpisong Ememobong Essien, former Ibesikpo Asutan lawmaker, Obong Eduok Eduok; Obong Isreal Utit, Nsit Ibom council chairman, Mr Eric Akpan; Nsit Atai lawmaker, Obong Mark Esset; Mkpisong Cyril Ekiko, former Ibiono Ibom lawmaker, Obong Ime Okon, Obong Okon Emah, and Obong M. C. Akpan, among others. During the meeting, two motions in support of the governor’s succession plan and the ongoing completion agenda of the state government were carried. The motion in support of Governor Emmanuel’s succession plan was moved by Prince Godwin Ntuk Udeh, and seconded by Obong Emmanuel Obot. Similarly, Obong Okon Emah, a former Commissioner in the state, moved the motion in support of the governor’s completion agenda. The motion was seconded by Obong Cyril Ekiko. The Uyo senatorial district leaders also passed a vote of confidence on Governor Udom Emmanuel for his leadership and good governance that have brought about economic growth and sustainable infrastructural development to the state. Also, the Akwa Ibom State chapter of the PDP says it is fully in support of Governor Udom Emmanuel’s choice of a successor. The Chairman of the party in the state, Aniekan Akpan, gave the governor the backing when Emmanuel visited the party secretariat during the week, pledging the party’s unalloyed support and loyalty of the party structures across the state to enable the governor actualise his succession plan and completion agenda. “We pledge our unflinching support towards the actualisation of your completion agenda. The party, through your support, has stabilised. We commend your achievements. You have done a lot. You are a pride to PDP,” Akpan said while a former state chairman of the party, Paul Ekpo, added that, “We will ensure that your completion agenda gets to a successful end.” While responding to the party leaders, Governor Emmanuel said his action in choosing Umoh was in the best interest of the people. “I would never do anything out of selfish interest. I am ready to take the bullet for the people. I am ready to take all the insults. Leadership is instituted by God. As a party, we will continue to remain united,” he said.   More confusion Meanwhile, the development in the state took a queer dimension during the week when the Akwa Ibom State Commissioner of Information and Strategy, Ini Ememobong, expressed concern that Governor Emmanuel is being vilified for endorsement of Pastor Eno as his preferred successor when he never admitted producing a successor. Ememobong said his boss only revealed what God revealed to him. The Commissioner wondered why the widespread attacks on the governor when it is actually the people of the state that have been pressuring him to at least show a direction. He stressed that there was nothing wrong for the governor to even desire maintained that the Governor’s action, adding that man’s desire to have a successor has always been a source of concern to families looking for heirs to succeed them and even in churches. “If biologically, traditionally and even in churches people are interested in succession, there is no way that anybody will say it is absolutely impossible that in politics people should not be interested in succession. Therefore, His Excellency the governor is interested in succession. The truth is that over time it is the people that have been calling on him to name who his preferred successor is, and the governor had said that he will not name his successor, that he will only reveal what God has revealed to him. “So if anybody has issue with the preferred successor, you challenge the source of his revelation and not the medium. And he has not admitted anywhere that he has produced a successor. It is an act of humility for the governor to tell the whole world that his successor will not be his choice. So there is no need for fear, and there is no cause for alarm. Those who want to go to election should prepare to go. The preference of the governor is his conviction. Those who believe in him will follow him and those who don’t will not be persecuted for not following him,” he explained. In another move that further compounded the crisis rocking the ruling party, Chairman, Akwa Ibom State Civil Liberties Organisation, Otuekong Franklyn Isong, clarified that the traditional supreme council ruler, Oku Ibom Ibibio, His Eminence, Ntenyin Dr Solomon Etuk, and other traditional rulers have not endorsed Governor Emmanuel anointed successor, Pastor Umo Eno, in spite of their presence at the meeting where he was unveiled by the governor. Isong, who is also the Otuekong Ikpaisong Ibibio, in a press conference on Friday explained that the supreme royal father and others went for the meeting on invitation by the governor stressing that, “the invitation was a private meeting with the State governor and they did not know the purpose of the meeting until they got there.” He noted that it would have been wrong and unruly of Etuk to have rejected the invitation by the governor since he did not tell them why he called them. SPONSORED