Investors in Vitafoam Nigeria Plc are in for wider dining tables as subsidiary of the leading bedding and home luxury group, Vitaparts Nigeria Limited, launched Nigeria’s first indigenous oil filters for automobiles. Vitaparts produces two variants of oil-filters for automobiles: Spin-on Vitafilter and Cartridge Vitafilter. Operations Manager, Vitaparts Nigeria Limited, Eghosa Osadolor, said that the innovative products were customised on the basis of the user’s engine. According to him, Vitaparts is set to revolutionise the automobile industry with the manufacturing of oil filters for automobiles. “The vision which birthed the company stemmed from the need to offer tested and trusted oil filters and other automobile parts that will serve Nigerians and their automobiles. The oil filters are manufactured in different sizes and are produced based on the user’s car engine. The filters are readily available for purchase at the Vitaparts office, various mechanic workshops, and accredited dealers across the country,” Osadolor said.   ‘NGX does not determine share’s listing price’     Women have strategic roles to play in nation building, says…     133 new stockbrokers get licences   He noted that over the years, Vitafoam has carved a niche for itself and transitioned from being just a manufacturer of flexible, reconstituted and rigid foam products to offering complete household furniture solutions to customers seeking comfort and reliability. According to him, in demonstrating that innovative and forward-thinking attributes, the company has recently added to her numerous value-adding products in the automobile industry; the production of oil filters for automobiles. “The product provides the best performance for automobile engines; it is optimised for both synthetic and conventional engine oils and has a minimum oil change interval of 10,000km,’’ it said. With state-of-the-art testing equipment, the filters have been confirmed to meet international standards,” Osadolor said. He added that manufactured with quality materials, the oil filters are produced to effectively remove contaminants in engine oils, maintain the life of your engine and provide optimal engine performance that meets the needs of mechanics, spare part dealers, importers, car assembly plants, and service centres in Nigeria. He explained that Vitaparts Nigeria Limited was floated by Vitafoam Nigeria as part of the manufacturing company’s drive to expand its products range beyond rigid foams.