Two foremost Osun monarchs – the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi and the Owa Obokun of Ijesa Land, Oba Gabriel Aromolaran – have given their royal blessings to the presidential aspiration of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. The All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart was at the ancient cities of Ile-Ife and Ilesa where he paid homage to the royal fathers as part of his consultation on his ambition. Supporters of the one-time Lagos State governor gathered at the palaces in solidarity. He was accompanied by top government officials led by Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. Tinubu is billed to visit the Ataoja of Osogbo, Oba Jimoh Oyetunji today. Some monarchs, including the Orangun of Ila, Oba Abdul-Wahab Oyedotun and the Ajero of Ijero kingdom, Oba Joseph Adebayo Adewole, joined the Ooni to receive Tinubu. They endorsed Tinubu’s presidential ambition. Showering blessings on his guest, the Ooni predicted that Tinubu’s ambition shall come to fruition. Oba Ogunwusi said: “You are a leader that God has bestowed grace on. You have helped many destinies, you have raised many leaders, one can judge by the massive crowd that joined you here today. “You have come to the throne of Oduduwa for prayers and blessing. You shall not go amiss. “You have never wronged anyone with your affairs. You need to be grateful to God who created you to be a special breed. “God caused your popularity to be spreading across the country. “We are grateful that you come here today; we are proud of you; you are our star. “All the ancestors of Yoruba land will aid your dream. Your steps shall be guided by the spirit of our forefathers. “God has given you a good name and he will stay by you, you shall continue to be relevant. “You shall get what you are asking for with ease, you have acknowledged the Yoruba traditional rulers here in the source of the whole earth, your prayer shall be answered. You shall not regret your aspiration, you shall prosper.”   APC picks zonal congress panels     Al-Makura, two others reject APC’s zoning, consensus plans     El-Rufai: resources in terrorists’ hands can subvert Nigeria   Tinubu commended Oba Ogunwusi for his unflinching cooperation and support for national integration, unity and peaceful cohesion. He said the visit was to intimate the monarch in particular and Nigerians in general of his ambition to run for president, an ambition he described as ‘timely and prompt’. Tinubu said: “I thank you all. I specifically thank the traditional rulers here present, I came here to seek your prayers. I am here for your support and cooperation. “I have been supporting the people here and there. We have moved all over the country for one candidate or the other especially in 2015 when we campaigned for President Muhammadu Buhari after his emergence. We equally supported him in 2019. “As you all know, what we are doing is to succeed him and I want to vie for President. “We believe that once Ooni, Orangun, Awujale, Alake, Owa, among others, speak, it becomes ours. With your support, it will come to pass. “I am determined, I am prepared and I am ready for it. “We should use the diversity that God gave to us to promote peace, unity and stability. Our nation is endowed, I promise, if you push me forward, I will move it from potential to reality.” The APC chieftain thanked the people of Osun State, particularly the leaders and members of the ruling party for their unalloyed support and cooperation with Governor Gboyega Oyetola and the party over the years. He described Oyetola’s victory at the party’s primaries as an indication of their love for the APC government in the state. “So, I thank you, particularly for standing by us, especially our royal fathers. I thank you for not putting our party to shame.” He urged Nigerians, particularly the youths who have been aspiring to become president, to champion the virtues of character, capacity, tolerance, endurance, consistency, integrity, diligence and ability to see good things and take leadership positions. He also endorsed Adegboyega Oyetola for a second term. Lauding Tinubu, Oba Aromolaran said: “Tinubu remains a true democrat that the nation needs at the moment because of his noble contributions to national growth and development.” The governor expressed gratitude to Osun people for renewing their confidence in his administration as demonstrated in the last primary election. He expressed confidence in the ability, capacity and competence of Tinubu to take the nation to the Promised Land.