All is set for the return of The Voice Nigeria for another season after the third season ended in July 2021. The winner of season three, Esther Benyeogo, was presented with one of her winnings, an SUV by Oluseyi Oyefeso, Group Executive, Commercial Banking, First Bank of Nigeria Limited Akin Salami, CEO, UN1TY Media (L), Producers of The Voice Nigeria. An elated Esther expressed delight and gratitude to the producers and headline sponsor of the show. Following the presentation of the SUV, producers of the show announced that preparations are in high gear for the fourth season of the talent and reality TV show. Esther Benyeogo emerged the winner of The Voice Nigeria Season three after 16 weeks of intense musical battle.   Steve Gukas’ Cake goes to cinemas     I don’t see anything wrong with two adults recording…     Nollywood responsible for correcting social vices, says…   - Advertisement - Benyeogo went up against finalists KPee (Team Darey), Kitay (Team Yemi), Naomi Mac and Dapo (Team Falz); and Eaziee (Team Waje). Esther caught Nigeria’s attention with her classic sound and adorable personality. She becomes the third winner of the show and was rewarded with the grand prize of N10 million cash prize and a recording deal with Universal Music Nigeria. The presentation of the SUV came after the show. Viewers couldn’t get over the level of talent that started at the Blind Auditions, the Battle and continued through to the finale of the FirstBank-sponsored reality competition. From Kitay and Kpee to Naomi Mac, Dapo, Esther, and Eaziee, there was no shortage of show-stopping music in season three. The reality cum talent show had its fair share of drama, too. Though a few contestants sparked controversy with their comments (or their surprising exits) the most shocking moment came from coach Falz, and coach Waje. The rapper and soulful singer had consistently left fans and viewers aghast with their emotions taking the better of them. Coach Waje had cried at different times after the performances of some of the talents while also left unsure when she had to choose between some of her best talents at the battles. SPONSORED