Nigeria has been ranked among top importers from China between 2007 and  2020. According to statistics by  CEIC Data, an ISI Emerging Markets Group Company, the  average  monthly  imports from China  stood at  $628 million. For instance, Nigeria total Imports from China recorded 1.441 USD billion in December 2020, compared with 1.712 USD billion in November of the same year.  The highest import figure  was $ 1.712 billion  in November 2020 and a record low of $7.073 million  in June 2009. Also, the Observatory of Economic Complexity (OEC), an online data visualisation and distribution platform focused on the geography and dynamics of economic activities noted that in  2019, China exported $15.5 billion worth of goods  to Nigeria. The main products exported from China to Nigeria were Telephones ($526million), Rubber Tyres ($360million), and Light Pure Woven Cotton ($301million). During the last 24 years, the exports of China to Nigeria have increased at an annualised rate of 21.3percent, from $151million in 1995 to $15.5billion in 2019. In 2020, Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria, Zhou Pinjiang, said Chinese imports from Nigeria last year increased by more than 70 per cent . The envoy made this known during events to mark the Chinese New Year also known as Spring Festival, held in Abuja. “China-Nigeria relations have been very productive and we face new opportunities to grow relations. There is the Forum of China Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) framework. “China and Nigeria cooperation is highly complementary and working together; we take advantage of each other’s strengths and explore cooperation potentials across board, culture, agriculture and industrialisation.’’ “Chinese imports from Nigeria last year increased by more than 70%. We wish to buy more from Nigeria. With time the manufacturing base in Nigeria will get stronger and the trade balance between China and Nigeria will become better to address the concern of Nigerians,” he said.   Nigeria loses $40b to foreign ship owners in three years     NDLEA recovers over N130b, drugs in one year     Coca-Cola Zero Sugar rebranded   The  Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on China-Nigeria Relations, Buba Yusuf Yakubu said the relationship between Nigeria and China is growing stronger by the day in many sectors. “The relationship has grown tremendously in the economic sector because in the last few years we have seen that a lot of industries are cropping up in Nigeria most of them own by the Chinese in partnership with some Nigerians,” he said. He added that the Chinese Free trade zone in Ogun state has a floating glass industry that has the capacity to give Nigeria all the glass that it needs and also serve West Africa. He noted that the Free trade zone has about 60 industries and is employing about 10, 000 Nigerians. “So you can see it a great achievement and most of these industries are owned by the Chinese in partnership with Nigerians. So this is bridging the trade gap because instead of importing all the goods we are now bringing in the industries into all over Nigeria. “So our dream of becoming an industrialized nation is becoming a reality and China being the catalyst to seeing that this industrialization comes to reality,” he said. He also lauded the massive infrastructure development in Nigeria courtesy of the relations with China. “You can see that most of our official infrastructure is being developed by Chinese companies like the roads, the railway and our airports. The relationship is a win-win situation where both countries governments’ businessmen and other citizens are all benefiting from the relationship. “The Chinese come in with the technology and expertise; but the natural resources and labour are supplied by Nigerians as well as the environment where they operate,” he added. Austria average’s  monthly  imports from China was $ 1.4 billion between January  1995  and  Feb 2021. Bangladesh average monthly  imports from China  stood at $ 1,.09 billion between January  1981  and February  2021.