When Emma Raducanu secured a Grand Slam singles title at last year’s US Open – the first British woman in 44 years to do so – she swiftly became a household name. What the 19-year-old tennis star from Bromley has achieved is not just global fame but global adoration – starting on home turf. In December 2021 she won BBC Sports Personality of the Year, while she has also fronted the cover of British Vogue. Of course, as with many overnight success stories – overnight success happens after a lifetime of sweat, and in a tennis superstar’s case, this rings true. She first started playing tennis aged five at her local tennis club, the Bromley Tennis Centre, while there’s YouTube footage of a nine-year-old Emma in the midst of an “epic rally” at the National Tennis Centre in 2011. In conversation with GLAMOUR, Emma talks about the moment she feels most empowered, the value of keeping things simple with her fitness regime –plus, her love of poke bowls. It’s this self-belief – and willingness to, as Emma puts it, “stay in [her] own lane” that sets her apart – and comes across in this interview.   - Advertisement - You were awarded Sports Personality of the Year in December 2021. What was the significance to you of winning that award? Thanks. It was a great achievement for me – a pretty incredible year. So to top it off with Sports Personality of the Year definitely meant a lot. It was a real honour to just be included in that list and to be a part of the past champions and winners. You’ve said that you’ve had a sense of self-belief ever since you were a little girl, which has been supported by your sports practice. Could you tell me more about the relationship between self-belief and sports? I think that self-belief is really important because tennis is such an individual sport and you’re out there on your own competing and fighting for every point. There are times when you may not be going through the best patches, but you’ve just got to keep working and trusting your journey. I think that’s something that I take into all aspects of life – for instance when building relationships, I like to align with people and partners that are really authentic – like Evian’s recent “Drink True” campaign [which celebrates authenticity, transparency and honesty]. When do you feel you most empowered?   ‘Edouard Mendy is a monster’     SADIO MANÉ: My dream is to win all the trophies     Oshoala’s depressive tweet worries relatives, kinsmen   It’s when I step out onto the match court, and I know it’s just me and myself out there. That’s probably the moment where I feel like I’m most in control. I like that there’s a sense of uncertainty, but you have the control over yourself – so you’re in a real battle then, fighting for every point. You became a household name overnight after winning the US Open. You once said in an interview that you cope with the pressures of fame ‘by giving my phone to my osteo’. What other tips do you have to try and disconnect from the emotionally and mentally taxing elements of your lifestyle? It varies depending on the tournament I’m at or the city I’m in, but I’ve definitely found some routines that really worked. So we’ve had a few routines like frozen yoghurt at the end of matches in New York. Or eating poke for dinner every single night for three weeks, because I didn’t want to change things. It’s more about finding small things like that. They just bring you a bit of comfort. Yeah – for me, when I was in New York, I really wanted that satisfaction of the walk to the frozen yogurt afterward. It was the highlight of my day, to be honest. You’re now a global ambassador for Evian – which supports the healthy hydration you absolutely need as a tennis player. Do you think we often overlook the simple things, like just drinking water, when it comes to our health and fitness? Yeah, I think that it’s very easy to overlook certain things. Everyone lives such a fast-paced life nowadays. For me, being an athlete, I think drinking water and especially pure water from Evian is really important in terms of just staying fit, staying healthy, and ensuring that I can continue with my training without getting tired. It’s about being in the best physical shape I can be. In many different areas, it’s the fundamentals that create a great base. I think you can take that and apply it in pretty much every aspect of life. What do you think are the particular challenges that the younger tennis players of today are facing? I think that the challenge that younger players may face is getting disheartened by a few losses in a row – that’s not something that every successful tennis player has gone through. But it’s important to keep strong and stay in your own lane really, and kind of zone out from what everyone else may think or say, and just keep believing in yourself. Is that the advice you give to yourself? Definitely! It doesn’t matter what level you’re at– if you keep losing a few matches, it can be easy to get disheartened, but personally, I just know that I’m doing the right things. I trust myself – and that everything will come together in the end. SPONSORED