The Lagos State Government said yesterday that it had decided to approach the Supreme Court for clarification on which of the two factions of Shangisha Landlords Association has the authority to represent it. According to a statement issued by the state’s Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, the clarification became necessary because of “the sharp divide between the two factions of the judgment creditors on who has authority to represent the Association and the disagreement regarding whom the Certificate of Occupancy should be issued (collectively or individually)”. Stern-looking policemen had taken over the highbrow Magodo area of Lagos on December 22 last year to execute a Supreme Court judgment that mandated the Lagos State Government to give back 549 plots to the original owners (Shangisha landlords) before it was “fraudulently acquired over 38 years ago”. The military government in the state then was said to have acquired the area for public use only for it to be later sold to government officials and their associates, prompting the original owners under the auspices of Shangisha Landlords Association to approach the high court for redress. In its final judgment, the high court ordered the state government to give the association and its members 549 plots of land as a matter of first priority; a judgment that was subsequently affirmed by both the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court.   EPL: Tottenham beat Man City 3 – 2     Okorocha’s thankful heart     Arewa youth tackle Akeredolu over ‘harassment of…   - Advertisement - In its statement yesterday, however, the state government said it was ready to comply with the judgment but after the series of meeting held between its officials and representatives of the landlords “there was a serious division among the judgment creditors as to who controlled or had the right to represent the Association” The statement also said the demand by the judgment creditors that a single global Certificate of Occupancy should be issued in the name of the Association ran contrary to the position of the state government that each of the 549 members of the Association would be given allotment letters individually. “Given the sharp divide between the two factions of the judgment creditors on who has authority to represent the Association and the disagreement regarding whom the Certificate of Occupancy should be issued (collectively or individually), the State Government has approached the Supreme Court to seek further directives and clarifications on both issues. “The Judgment Creditors have been served with the application. “The State Government, however, wishes to reiterate its commitment to complying with the judgment of the Supreme Court once these two issues are resolved,” the statement added. SPONSORED