Nigeria has emphasised that that democratic modes are the only means of effecting change in government within the West African region. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), who stated this to reporters at the end of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Extraordinary Summit on the political situations in Burkina Faso, Mali and Guinea in Accra, Ghana, added that only democracy is acceptable to all of the protocols of the sub-regional body. The Vice President, who represented President Muhammadu Buhari at the summit, returned to Abuja same yesterday. According to a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mr. Laolu Akande, Osinbajo said: “I think it has been fruitful, the Heads of State again reiterated the firm position that had been taken earlier that there is absolutely no excuse for a change of government by coup d’etat. “So, what happened in Burkina Faso was considered and has been condemned by all of the heads of state and we do not think there is any excuse for it whatsoever. - Advertisement - “But at the moment, of course, engagement is going on with the military junta and also we condemned the attempted coup in Guinea-Bissau and congratulated President Umaro Sissoco Embaló and the people of Guinea-Bissau for resisting that unconstitutional attempt to change the government. “All in all, it has been fruitful and we are very hopeful that lessons had been learnt and we will not see a repeat of this. “We are expecting that the Malian authorities would respond to ECOWAS imposed sanctions as you know and we expect that at some point, the Malian authorities themselves would begin to speed up the process of transition. We expect that they would do so. We are looking forward to that engagement,” he said.   Salami: technology key to speedy justice delivery     Find attackers of Aregbesola’s campaign office,…     Ohanaeze: Igbo not interested in leaving Nigeria   Also, Ghana President and ECOWAS Chairman, Nana Akufo-Addo, yesterday declared that the 2020 coup in Mali influenced subsequent military takeovers in Africa. Akufo-Addo said this yesterday, during the ECOWAS extraordinary summit on the political situation in Burkina Faso. There have been military takeovers in at least three countries across the West African region within the past 18 months. In August 2020, a coup by mutinying soldiers in Mali resulted in the resignation of President Ibrahim Keita, who is now late. In May 2021, there was a second coup in Mali, followed by military takeovers in Guinea and Burkina Faso in September 2021 and January 2022. The most recent related incident was an attempted coup in Guinea-Bissau on Tuesday. Akufo-Addo said there is a need to take urgent steps to address the factors that breed room for such military takeovers. “This summit will focus on the emerging threats in our region that stem from the military’s interference in Mali and its contagious influence in Guinea and Burkina Faso,” he said. “Let us address this dangerous trend collectively and decisively before it devastates the entire region.”