Federal University of Technology Owerri (FUTO) Alumni Association has described as inappropriate the appointment of Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantanmi as a professor. This is contained in a release signed by the Association’s National President, Ndubuisi Chijioke after the National Executive Council meeting of the association held in Owerri, Imo State on Friday. Chijioke noted that the association had taken note of the position of the Academic Staff Union of Universities ASUU and the reversed position of FUTO ASUU and agreed with the inappropriateness of the said appointment. “NEC also considered the unresolved issue of the appointment of Dr. Isa Pantami as a Professor at our alma mater and has taken note of the National ASUU position and the reversed position of FUTO ASUU in agreeing with the inappropriateness of the said appointment. FUTO Alumni Association restates that this appointment remains inexplicable and questionable.” He expressed disappointment over the continued dent in the University’s image in recent times and called on the association’s members to help change the narrative by insisting that whatever was wrong must be made right. - Advertisement - “We must be unequivocal and unapologetic in taking the necessary actions to address any failure of institutional leadership or process in whatever form,” he said.   Economy: PDP not qualified to cast aspersion – APC     Orientation exercise: COVID-19 test compulsory, says NYSC     Court remands four men for allegedly burning…   Chijioke described the association as a corporate entity founded on the principles laid out in its constitution which clearly spells out the requirements for membership. He urged the association’s members to desist from using its name for personal reasons in a way that could result in public disrepute. He further dissociated the association from a proposed meeting with the University management organised by some members of the association under the auspices of FUTO Alumni Elders, a group which he said was not recognised by the association. ”Members must not usurp or lay claim to be representatives of the association or act without the consent of the association in any way that brings the association to disrepute or public opprobrium. ”Our National Executive Council (NEC) wishes to dissociate FUTO Alumni Association and her members from this event. ”NEC wishes to clarify that the association has not committed any funds or authorised the University to avail or expend any funds for this event from the Alumni funds in its custody,” he said. SPONSORED