Egypt defender Marwan Mohamed Moustafa Dawoud has been banned for two matches by CAF after he was charged for misconduct following a crisis that was ensued in the quarter-final game between Egypt and Morocco on Sunday. The Al Ahly defender will miss Thursday’s semi-final clash against Cameroon and the final game on Sunday if Egypt qualifies. The CAF Disciplinary Board charged Egypt and Morocco players and officials with misconduct and bringing the game into disrepute. The officials of the above-mentioned match indicated in their reports that at the end of the match, there were altercations between Egypt assistant coach Rogerio Paulo Dos Santos Cesar De Sa and the President of the Moroccan FA Mr. Fouzi Lekjaa. A general fight followed in which Morocco player Sofian Boufal and Egypt player Marwan Mostafa Daoud were identified.   CAF moves third-place final to Saturday     Aubameyang signs for Barcelona on free transfer     TIT-BITS FROM CAMEROON   - Advertisement - At the end of their investigating, CAF Disciplinary Board decided to suspend Egypt player, Marwan Mohamed Moustafa Dawoud for two matches, namely match no. 50 (Semi Final) and match no. 52 (Final) or match no. 51 (3rd Place match) for his violent conduct, and to impose a fine of 5.000 USD upon Egyptian Federation. The board also suspended Egypt assistant coach, Mr. Rogerio Paulo Dos Santos Cesar De Sa for four matches; namely match no. 50 (Semi Final) and match no. 52 (Final) or match no. 51 (3rd Place match) in addition to his next two matches with his national team, for using an obscene gesture, and to impose a fine of 10.000 USD on Egyptian Federation. It however imposed a fine of 10.000 USD on Egyptian Federation for the unidentified aggressors of the above-mentioned incident while a warning order was addressed to Egypt coach, Carlos Quiroz by bringing the game into disrepute virtue of bench behaviour. In the same vein, Morocco players Soufian Chakla, and Soufian Boufal were suspended for two matches with the national team, for their violent behaviour. CAF also imposed a fine of 10,000 USD on Moroccan Federation for the unidentified aggressors of the above-mentioned incident while addressed a call of order to Morocco officials present on the bench for their unsportsmanlike behaviour.