Mrs. Dayo Benjamins-Laniyi, business woman and public speaker, is a senatorial aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. She spoke with Deputy Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU on her ambition, her plans for his district, the proposed national convention and other partisan issues. Why are you vying for the Senate? It’s about the people, people and people. To work the aspirations of change into engaging grass roots impact via the senatorial office and affecting laws, as well as raising the priority of hope for vulnerable communities within the FCT. It is also important to take into consideration the realities of the internally displaced who have moved from their place of origin and original engagements and economies into the capital city looking for some breakthrough, turnaround, and to be able to provide them with significant opportunities through prioritisation. I also want to fill a gap because the FCT needs to move to another level. Why are you contesting in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) district? I have lived in the FCT for over 30 years.  I started as a youth-corper. Without any external influence, I went through what every typical Nigeria youth went through and today, I’ve become a story of success. I am a testimony of the FCT. This is where I got married, had my children, and I also expect to become a grandmother in Abuja. My carbon footprint is in the whole city. For over 3 decades, I have seen gaps in the quality of life of the people in multifarious areas: health/education/etc. I am particularly interested in the use of appropriate legislation to make the living conditions of the residents of the FCT better. Abuja is a place of life, love, laughter, and for me, contesting here is just expressing the blessing of being FCT opportune over the last three decades and now I’m extending that opportunity through this investiture of office. - Advertisement - What experience qualifies you for the role you are aspiring to? My experience is the experience of heart, mind and faith. I can go ahead and say that I am an international entrepreneur, enterprise communicator. But, much more than that is what qualifies one to lead, which  is the purest and highest aspirations for people and the purpose of impacting the lifeline of the suburbs . Also, is the right spirit of personal leadership that you can extend to leading others, and that is what qualifies me to lead. The heart of integrity to serve and not to exploit has been proven and tested overtime. What have you done for the District that makes you think that constituents will prefer you to your rivals? In my role as a visible voice and face working on the different brands working as an entrepreneur, advocating for youths and children, the community of faith, I have traction across different areas of engagement. I have transcended the church walls to become a social change agent. We have organised outreach in at least four area councils as a church: touching lives and transforming families in all of the FCT environs. I’ve also been involved in projects that changed lives and inspired laughter such  as the DBL Dream Girls project, which began in 2019, and is still ongoing. 50 students from Government Secondary School, Dutse, were chosen after a rigorous selection process. They were equipped with multiple skills like photography, make-up application, sewing, public speaking, de-mystification of Mathematics, etiquette, etc. The lives of these 50 students significantly improved and it was the very first of its kind in the FCT! Infact, One of the Dream Girls has just been offered admission at Yaba College of Technology, and her story is that of determination, discipline and diligence. In the environment sector, ‘Saleh Gardens’,  is now a mini tourist attraction in the FCT. This was an abandoned plot of land, flooded and unsightly. I drained the water and made it a reference point for environmental preservation in the FCT. Vintage trees met there were re-vitalised, while new ones were and are still being planted. On account of this, I was named ‘Environmental Ambassador’ for the FCT. Over the years, I have mentored dozens of young people who were at risk of losing their bearings. As an entrepreneur, we have trained and supported young people from the streets of Abuja, providing them with relevant skills that have made them employable. Besides those listed here, there are many laudable projects I have been privileged to execute  in the FCT that time and space may not permit me to mention… Why did you choose APC as platform? The APC is a viable political party that is extremely focused on embracing women into political participation. The progressive women congress a few weeks ago proved this. The APC encourages women to express their views on the way forward for the Party- Inclusivity is the watchword. For me, the  priority is finding a political architecture that is relevant and positioned to translate one’s assignment into positional leadership for as many people as possible.  It is my first time flying party colors and I’m confident hat I have made the right choice.   Uniting North, South through traditional titles     Only democracy is acceptable means to change govt, says…     Salami: technology key to speedy justice delivery   How prepared are you for the financial challenge of electioneering? Running for elective office is similar to starting up a business. You start with a           conviction, then work out your strategy, and then try to raise capital. You start with a seed from yourself  either through what you do or what you say, then it extends to people around you (who believe in you) and then it extends externally. Although, we will be guided by strategic financial resources and a knowledgeable workforce. . How are your godfathers in the party and the District?  All members of the party and Nigeria are my Godfathers, but above all is God Almighty and He owns all districts. Every other person is an inspirational mentor, adviser, counselor guiding through the spirit of goodwill. In my quest for the Senate seat, I have mentors who provide good guidance. They are doing a good job of shaping me toward success. I usually tell my mentors” Teach me what to say, Teach me the way. Great leaders must become great listeners, and outstanding leaders must first become outstanding listeners. I’m ready to lead because first I’m ready to listen and learn. What is the assurance that you will beat other aspirants at the primary? Politics demands faith: Faith in yourself, direction, and charge to become a reference for people, policy, and legacy. One thing is for certain, there is a race to run. And I intend to win. No matter how difficult it may appear, it just looks difficult. Every difficulty has a solution and an outcome of victory. Run Dayo Run, I’m running to win. Why are women looking for a short cut, like concessions of reduced fees, unlike men, while obtaining forms? I am a woman and I am not seeking for shortcuts. I am not asking for anyone to step down or a reduced fee. I am seeking a platform of equal opportunity to run like my brothers, which the APC provides solely. As such, this statement could be construed as patronising by some women who are sincerely interested in running but face obstacles. It’s also a good thing if the party can provide such an opportunity for women who are challenged. Not having enough resources shouldn’t prevent anyone from running. What is your assessment of the Buhari administration? Nigeria is a big, unique country, and to govern Nigeria is not an easy task. Mr president is doing what he is doing, and we hope that in the near future we’ll see the results and experience dividend of his administration and  that the next administration will take over from where he has stopped. APC is preparing for convention. What is your expectation? It’s a time to strategise as a family, and we believe the APC government will continue to lead the country to greater heights giving the chance for the right people to emerge. A convention like this is an opportunity to put  our best foot forward and mobilize the next level agenda. It’s about technical strategy. We are consolidating every gain and empowering our strategies again. This will be the greatest consolidation of party dynamics in a long time. It began with the APC Women Convention and I believe that it shall continue with the representation of a very unique impact on the APC Congress. What are the problems of your district which you hope to articulate in the National Assembly, if elected? I don’t want to call them problems, but “dynamics. Whatever has to do with the vulnerable, whether it’s women or men, children or the elderly, or people who need intervention in health, agro-economy and other areas of traditionally practiced social-economies. This is the kind of spotlight and intervention we are bringing. I also believe that the  original inhabitants need a certain spotlight that I’m dedicated to seeing become an expression, not just of their lives, but of their livelihood as well. Finally, my emphasis will be on youth innovation, youth representation, creating opportunities and platforms for progressive engagements for the youth of FCT because they represent the true future for sustaining and preserving our development as a frontline capital city for Africa aligning with AFCTA’s goal for inclusive and sustainable development with special emphasis on youths.