Former Senate President Bukola Saraki has consulted with former Vice President Namadi Sambo; former Kaduna Governors Ahmed Makarfi and Ramalan Yero as well as other stakeholders of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) over his 2023 presidential ambition. Saraki, who also met with executive members of the Kaduna chapter of the PDP, said Nigeria is sick and needs a young, vibrant and intelligent leader like him to get out of the wood. The former Senate President was represented on the consultation tour by Chairman, Contact and Mobilisation Committee of Abubakar Bukola Saraki for 2023 presidency, Professor Iyorwuese Hagher and other members of the committee including former National Chairman of the party, Kawu Baraje and former Kwara Governor, Senator Shaaba Lafiagi. Read Also: 2023: Why zoning shouldn’t sacrifice competence, by Saraki Addressing PDP members at the State Secretariat of the party, Hagher said Nigerians are sick and tired of APC, adding that if Saraki, a consultant medical practitioner by training is voted into power, he would ensure a healthy nation. Hagher said presidency under Saraki would be a double blessing for the country for the fact that he is a medical doctor, young and energetic who is ready to listen to the yearnings of the citizens.   BREAKING: Robbers attack three banks in Edo     Man kills cousin for sleeping with wife     Ex-AGF Aondoakaa: No court barred me from public office   According to him: “We have met with former Vice President Namadi Sambo, former Governor Ahmed Makarfi, former Governor Ramalan Yero, former and serving PDP Senators. They gave us permission to come and address the larger house in Kaduna. We are in PDP because APC is not a party to join. “Nigerians are sick and tired of APC, a strange bed fellow that came together to bring hardship on Nigerians through civilian dictatorship. “PDP is well organised. It will defeat APC. Saraki will be accepted by the north and south. He is well educated. Now that Nigeria is sick, it needs Abubakar Bukola Saraki because he is a medical doctor. “Nigeria needs energetic president who will cry when citizens are crying, the president that will laugh when citizens are laughing. Not the president that will be laughing when citizens are crying. When he becomes president he will unite the citizens. “We have insecurity in the country today because the leaders are incapable. We need a president that will ensure security of the people”.