Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike has said the South will soon take a position and make a declarative statement on the 2023 presidential election that will shock the country. “The day the South will speak, Nigeria will shake. We believe in the unity of this country, but nobody can threaten us. Nobody should threaten us. We believe in the unity of Nigeria and unity of Nigeria must continue,” he stressed. The Governor spoke at a grand reception organised in his honour by the people of Kalabari ethnic nationality at the Abalama School field in Asari Toru Local Government Area on Saturday. Wike was conferred a traditional title of Se- Ibidokubo of Kalabari land (He who does good things for Kalabari people) by the Amayanabo of Abonnema, King Gboko Desreal Bob-Manuel. He said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would not give its presidential ticket to any candidate, who would serve only the interest of the wealthy few in Nigeria. - Advertisement - The Governor said some desperate politicians were already scheming for a candidate, who would not serve the interest of the many. According to him: “No amount of gang up can make PDP to give somebody who will want to run election for the interest of some big men, and not for all Nigerians. “Anybody who wants to be candidate of PDP must be candidate for the interest of Nigerians.”   FG promises more weapons for military operations     Niger imposes curfew on two councils over terror attacks     Vigilante commander shot dead in Delta   He expressed concerns over the fact that some companies continued to post annual financial profits regularly in a poor national economy to the detriment of the poor. Wike said such profits, invariably, shared only by the rich, made them to get richer while the majority of the population of the country become poorer. The Governor lambasted Rivers politicians serving in the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration for their inability to attract Federal Government projects to the State. On the next Rivers governorship poll, Wike said everybody was entitled to aspire but such person must show capacity to protect the interest of the State. He said the Kalabari people had not done well in terms of loving themselves and working in unity adding that only a united people could stand up to make demands. The Governor announced the extension of deadline for the completion of the Trans Kalabari road phase one project by two months owing to the loss period when workmen were kidnapped on site. He disclosed that if the finances of the State improved, his administration might award the next phase of the Trans Kalabari road before the expiration of his tenure. The Governor, while cancelling the contract for the reconstruction of Kalabari National College due to foreseen politics, announced the release of more fund for the Maryhood Girls Secondary school in the area to speed up its completion.