Managing Director, Futureview Asset Management, Ughochi Nnodi has offered investment tips for building an efficient portfolio that can generate competitive returns despite prevailing inflationary environment. After  eight months of steady deceleration in headline inflation, there was a marginal spike in the last December rate from 15.4 per cent in November 2021 to 15.63 per cent in December 2021. The increase in headlines inflation which was attributed to currency depreciation and the liquidity challenges in the forex market was expected to impact negatively on all investment outlets. Nnodi explained that investors could optimise the tough operating environment by investing in assets that hedge against inflation. According to her, there are resilient sectors that outperform inflation and generate alpha returns.   Airtel Africa grows net profit by 97.3% to $514m in Q3     ‘Stockbroking firms need innovation, technology to thrive’     Notore grows turnover by 43% to N27b   She noted that investors should take advantage of sectors such as commodities, financials, healthcare, consumer staples, energy, technology and real estate to build a balanced portfolio. “There are resilient stocks that thrive during inflation because of their underlying assets. Investors should build their portfolios with stocks of companies in the healthcare, energy, commodities, consumer staples, financials and real estate among others as a risk and reward trade off,’’ she added.     - Advertisement - We should not lose sight of mutual funds which is a collection of investment in different asset classes.   “ At Futureview, we design financial products to meet the demand of our array of customers with diverse investment objectives and risk tolerance. For instance, we have a product that targets Nigerians in diaspora. It is called Futureview Dollar Fund. We floated it along with Futureview Equity Fund. The two financial instruments hedge investment against inflation while they provide regular income.   “ It is settled in portfolio management that during high inflation rate, mutual funds provide an opportunities for diversification at every dollar level, sharing of investment expenses, economies of scale and operational efficiencies, ease of investing  in specialized market sectors and investment tracking, simple portfolio management, access to professional money managers and  low trading costs,” Nnodi.