Eight prisoners from Nnewi Correctional Center, Anambra State have regained freedom after being remanded for nearly two years following their inability to pay their fines as ordered by the court. The inmates from the Northern part of Nigeria were freed through the effort of a Catholic priest, Rev. Fr. Humphrey Nwajoko of the ‘Everyday with Jesus and Mary Adoration Ministry Holy Trinity Parish, Catholic Diocese of Nnewi. The inmates were Sani Musa, Hammandada Adamu, Suleman Kabiru, Paul Martins, Jonathan Haruna, Emmanuel Magaji, Salihu Ali and Ibrahim James. Fr. Gbarie, as he is fondly called by his congregation, said he was moved with passion to assist the inmates when he was approached by some officials of the Correctional Center over the inmates inability to pay their fines. He said,: “I remembered the words of Jesus, I was in prison you visited me, then I moved into action. It was not really easy for me to carry the responsibility as times are very hard but I believe that for God to have brought it to my knowledge I had no choice. “I had earlier assisted some freed inmates with phones when they were set free by the Chief Judge of Anambra State. There was this freed inmate we had to buy a motorcycle for to assist him in earning.   Anger in Niger Delta over Ijaw leader’s call to end…     APC Govs to meet Buhari Tuesday over 2023 timetable     Terrorists storm wedding, abduct bride, others in Niger   “It is not that we have plenty money to throw around but the joy of bringing smile to the faces of these neglected persons is enough to spur us on. We believe that in doing this, we are saving souls and bring them closer to God through the ministry ‘Everyday with Jesus and Mary.” The cleric, who revealed he had been providing for the inmates basic needs on regular basis, urged the freed inmates to be true followers of Christ and avoid anything that might make them return to the Correctional Center. The ASP 1 of the Nnewi Correctional Center, Mrs Uche Okeke said that the eight of the freed inmates were part of the twenty five jobbers arrested by law enforcement agents and were brought to the center. She pointed out that other persons paid their fine and were left off the hook except the ones freed by the priest. “We talked to them and tried to get their relations to pay the fines ordered by the court but nobody came for them. So we had to run to Rev Fr Nwajoko who has always assisted us in times of need.” She said. One of the freed inmates, Mr. Jonathan Haruna from Plateau State thanked the priest for his intervention.