The Zamfara State House of Assembly has impeached Deputy Governor Mahadi Aliyu Gusau. This followed the adoption of a motion by Majority Leader Faruku Dosara (APC, Maradun 1) at plenary yesterday in Gusau, the state capital. The motion came after the House adopted the report of Justice Haladu Tanko-led panel which investigated alleged gross misconduct and abuse of office against the deputy governor. Speaker Nasiru Muazu Magarya, who presided over the plenary, directed the Clerk, Saidu Anka, to conduct a voice vote on the impeachment of Gusau from office. Twenty out of the 22 lawmakers at the sitting voted in favour of the impeachment and the deputy governor was pronounced impeached. The Chief Judge, Justice Kulu Aliyu, had, on February 14, inaugurated an investigative panel on the alleged misconduct of the deputy governor, following a request by the Assembly on February 10. Also, Governor Matawalle has appointed Senator Hassan Mohammed Nasiha Gusau as his new deputy. Gasau defected from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in June 2021.   Battle for APC top posts shift to zones     Fashola: Fed Govt to unlock over N1tr road funding     Lawmakers to vote on VAT, power devolution, others   Until his appointment, Gasau was the senator representing Zamfara Central in the National Assembly. The Nation had reported that the House of Assembly yesterday impeached Mahdi Aliyu Muhammad Gusau as deputy governor with immediate effect. In a statement, the Assembly’s spokesperson Mustafa Jafaru Kaura said the former deputy governor was found guilty of all the allegations levelled against him. Also, the House of Assembly yesterday confirmed Gusau as the new deputy governor. In a letter by Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Kabiru Balarabe, and read at plenary by Speaker Magarya, the governor nominated Senator Hassan Nasiha Gusau as the new deputy governor, following the impeachment of Mahadi Aliyu Gusau from office. Majority Leader Faruku Dosara moved the motion for the confirmation of Gusau and was unanimously approved by the lawmakers. Also, an APC chieftain and former Chairman of the House Committee on Internal Affairs and Intelligence, Aminu Sani Jaji, has said Mahdi Aliyu Gusau was not impeached for refusing to join the ruling party. He said the former deputy was sacked following allegations of negligence of duty and misappropriation, among others. “If it had something to do with the party, the governor would have invited stakeholders like us to tell us that since he had refused to follow us to the APC, let’s impeach him. But he didn’t do so. This means it has nothing to do with joining the APC or remaining with the PDP. “Secondly, this is happening after seven months. This shows it has nothing to do with that,” he said.