For the first time in a long while, Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje yesterday praised his predecessor, Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso. The governor said Kwankwaso and himself are the ones who developed the state to its enviable status. “Former Governor, Senator Rabi’u Musa and I are the architects of modern Kano,” he said to the surprise of a gathering at the Coronation Hall, Government House Kano. Ganduje spoke during a stakeholders’ meeting with leaders of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) from the state and 44 local government Areas. At the meeting, the governor briefed them about the latest judgment passed by the Court of Appeal on the leadership of the party at wards and local governments (congresses) passed in favour of his faction. - Advertisement -  He said: “Those responsible for the new face of Kano State are Kwankwaso and Ganduje.”   Sylva: Inspection failure to blame for toxic petrol import     Why IMF won’t channel $100b loan through AfDB, by President     Gombe deploys 500 youths trained in security, traffic   “We (Kwankwaso and Ganduje) have done our best in lifting the face of Kano State. And I will continue to maintain this as a governor of the state,” he said. He invited the Shekarau faction that lost at Appeal Court to come back and join hands together to make the party stronger. As the Court of Appeal made its ruling, which favours us, we should therefore tighten our belts for the success of our party as we are facing contests with other opposition parties,” he pleaded. It was not surprising that Ganduje did not mention Ibrahim Shekarau -a former governor and APC Senator for sharing credit in the development of Kano. Shekarau is having a frosty relationship with Ganduje over who controls the party’s delegates in the state. But the Court of Appeal, Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Division, has now resolved the impasse in Kano State chapter of the party, dismissing the judgement of the lower court which upheld the party’s parallel congresses conducted by a G-7 faction led by Senator Shekarau. Following the judgment of the Appeal Court, led by Justices Haruna Csammani, Governor Ganduje has now retained supremacy as the leader of the structure of the ruling APC in Kano. Also, according to the ruling, Prince Abdullahi Abbas, fielded by the governor’s faction, is the authentic chairman of the APC in Kano State. SPONSORED