The All Progressives Congress (APC), South African Chapter has commended the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), for shifting the national convention scheduled for Feb. 26. The Nation reports the ruling party has approved March 26 as the new date for the National Convention. Reacting, the Chairman of the chapter, Dr Legend Asuelime, in a statement noted that postponement will serve as an opportunity​​ for the party to address some growing concerns of the chapter. Asuelime explained that the Committee of Diaspora Chairmen worldwide are currently engaged with the CECPC on the proposed constitutional amendments that need to provide proper inclusion in the party organs, promote diaspora inclusion, engagement, and a structured reward system for members in diaspora.   Emmanuel sacks Chief of Staff over disloyalty     2023 president: APC zoning tilts ticket in South’s favour     Brittania-U kicks as consortium blames it for toxic petrol   - Advertisement - He said: “The postponement of the convention provides another opportunity for the CECPC to address our concern before tabling the amended constitution for adoption, at the convention.” Meanwhile, the party’s chapter has also warned the public about a suspended former member of the chapter, Mr. Bola Babarinde, who is allegedly impersonating the leadership of the Chapter and issuing press statements against the Mai Mala Buni-led CECPC in Lagos. Asuelime said: “The public is hereby informed that the leadership of APC South Africa did not release nor assert the content of his press statement titled “APC South Africa kicks against postponement of party’s national convention”. “On the contrary, APC South African Chapter supports in totality the postponement of the convention to allow Mai Mala Buni and the rest of the CECPC to perfect and address the logistical impediments and other party conundrums before the committee. “As far as we know, APC Diaspora Chairmen Forum, (the only APC-NEC recognized Diaspora Chapter group to which we belong) removed Bola Babarinde from their midst in November 2021 after they discovered he had joined them through fraudulent means after the passing of our former Chairman (Dr Taye Abe) in June 2020.”