ANNONYMOUS: I am a retired police officer. Last year, I applied for the payment of arrears of 2.5 per cent approved by the President to retirees’pensioners of federal ministries/parastatals, which was not paid to some of us under Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). I read in The Nation that the cash has been paid to our PFAs through PenCom. To my dismay, Premium Pension, my PFA, has not implemented the payment. Please when are we going to be paid? PENCOM: Please provide your RSA PIN. HUSSAINI: Good day, Omobola. My name is Hussaini. I was a staff member of the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation & Fiscal Commission. I retired on February 1, last year. I was verified  last November 18,  and was issued with Retirement Benefit Enrolment Slip. My questions are: When will I  collect my lumpsum and receive monthly pension? Am I going to be paid monthly pension arrears from February, last year to date? - Advertisement - PENCOM: Please provide your RSA PIN. ATINSHOLA: My name is Atinshola. When I resigned from Sterling Bank in 2018, 25 per cent of my savings was paid immediately and another 25 per cent when I was 50 by Crusader Sterling Pension. I urge my pension manager to pay the balance to enable me fund my children education, pay my rents and also attend to other needs. PENCOM: Please note that this will not be possible due to the fact that you have been given a total of 50 per cent of your RSA balance (25 per cent when you resigned and 25 per cent upon attaining 50 as you  stated above). The remaining amount in the RSA will be applied to the payment of your monthly pension. Kindly visit your Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) who would assist you further. Thank you. ANNONYMOUS: Good day, Crusader Pension is frustrating me because I demanded that my funds be transferred to another pension manager. Though its official asked me to give a month notice, it rejected the letter from TrustFund, my new pension until the notice expires. Kindly advise me. PENCOM: Please provide your RSA PIN. SUPOL BROWNSON: Hello, I am SUPOL Brownson, a retired Assistant Superindent of Police (ASP). I retired on the April 4, 2019. Though I was verified by PenCom officials in August 2018 at the University of Port Harcourt, I have not been paid. Please help me. PENCOM: Please provide your RSA PIN. SHIDALI: Good day, I appreciate your good work to  retirees. I did my verification with my PFA Leadway Pensure. After the exercise, I was sent  a small amount as my closing balance. Later, a smaller amount was sent to me.   FCMB Group takes over AIICO Pension     Police should remain in CPS, says group     222 retirees in Lagos get N1.04b   I want to know about the balance. I look forward to hearing from you. Thank you. PENCOM: Please provide your RSA PIN MRS OKON: I am Mrs. Okon. Before I retired on September 25, 2020, I took a promotion interview to Director in the Federal Civil Service. The result came in last year. I have done the verification in my former office. Please, how do I upgrade my pension? PENCOM: A copy of the promotion letter indicating grade level and step and effective   date   should be   forwarded to   PenCom along with a copy of your registration slip obtained during enrolment. DANIEL: My name is Daniel, the next-of-kin to Mrs Grace Ameh,  who died after 10 years in the service of Federal Polytechnic, Idah. I received some money in my UBA account as her RSA contribution with Sigma Pensions. We are awaiting the death/life assurance benefits of the late worker. PENCOM: You are advised to contact Mrs. Ameh’s employer who should process the proceeds of the Group Life Insurance Policy and ensure payment by the insurance company to her beneficiaries since she died in active service. Thank you. ANNONYMOUS: Good day, please when will those who retired last year get their lumpsum? Thank you. PENCOM: Please tell them to provide their RSA PIN. ALAKE: Hello, my name is Alake, a retiree of Lagos State University (LASU). l retired on February20, last year. My pension administrator is NUPEMCO. It is a year since l retired. l have submitted the required documents. I was only told to be patient. But I have nothing to sustain me. Please help me. Thank you. PENCOM: Please provide your RSA PIN. IZUATA: My name is Izuata, a retired Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP). I was paid a pitiable   amount as lump sum, though I have a huge sum was left in my account. But, junior officers who went to PenCom office were paid higher than I. I am bedridden. I am using this forum to appeal to PenCom management to pay me the accruing sum. PENCOM: Please provide your RSA PIN.