Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Dr Zainab Ahmed has underscored the importance of financial inclusion and gender balance in the nation’s development. She said considering the low level of representation of women in business and political roles, specific actions must be taken as individuals, at the corporate level and in government to create a ‘seat at the table’ for women in areas such as access to financing and capacity building for women-owned businesses. She noted that ensuring equal access to information, boosting financial inclusion, financial literacy amongst women and girls and closing the digital gender gap among other steps would help in mainstreaming women into national development. Ahmed spoke at the maiden conference of the Society of Women in Taxation (SWIT) in Cotonou, Republic of Benin. The theme of the conference was: “The roles of professional women in nation b”. SWIT is the female arm of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN). - Advertisement - She noted that the subject matter was one that was very close to her heart given that she’s a woman who has been given a role to play in nation building. She however encouraged all and sundry to be deliberate in efforts to give more voice to women in leadership roles across all spheres of society. “I want to encourage all women attending this conference, as well as our male allies, to consider the promotion of increased opportunities for women in leadership roles in the workplace as a collective task. In my position as the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, women represent 50 percent of my personal team. On committee assignments I have also sought to ensure women are well represented and take a lead in driving the discussions that lead to better policy making,” Ahmed said. National Chairperson, Society of Women in Taxation (SWIT),  Dr Abiola Adimula, said the conference was to deliberate on individual and collective roles in nation building in order to impact societies positively.   133 new stockbrokers get licences     Learn Africa plans merger to drive growth     Stock Exchange lifts suspension on Niger Insurance   “We need to be strategic to know what we ought to do and be available to act as Agents of change in our respective spaces towards national development. That is why we have brought you all as professional- women and men alike to deliberate on what we need to do positively to impact each and every aspect of our lives,” Adimula said. She thanked the Kwara State Government for sponsoring not less than 18 participants. President, Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria(CITN), Mr.  Adesina Adedayo expressed his excitement to be part of the great initiative. He said the issue of gender balance and the need to accord women equal opportunities have gained more momentum globally. “Over the years, many women have broken the ice in feats achieved in nation building. It has been observed that countries with increase women’s participation and leadership in civil society and political parties tend to be more inclusive, responsive, egalitarian and democratic,” Adesina said. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Nigerians in Diaspora CCommission (NIDCOM), Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa, who attended virtually, encouraged women to actively participate in politics at the local, state and national level, not necessarily contesting for elections. “If the professional women want to change the status quo, then they should actively participate in political affairs,” Dabiri-Erewa said. She however acknowledged the fact that it might be difficult but the importance cannot be overemphasised as it enables them to be part of decision making. Former Deputy Governor of Osun State and former Minister of Defence, Erelu Olushola Obada who also attended virtually, gave a deep insight on the important roles women can play as evident in academics, business, public service and politics. According to her, the percentage of women participation in leadership roles is very low and there should be a significant adjustment.