Local contractors yesterday served a notice to protest the non-payment of the N2 trillion being owed them by the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), if they are not paid by next Tuesday. The debts were accumulated over a period of eight years. The notice came days after the contractors shut the Port Harcourt headquarters of the NDDC. During the protest, they urged President Muhammadu Buhari to prevail on NDDC management to pay for services they already rendered. According to them, they took bank loans to implement the projects.   Traders urged to vote for APC in Saturday’s FCT election     Banks lose access to CBN’s forex cash     Disquiet over hike in Delta varsities’ fees   Spokesman of the Niger Delta Indigenous Contractors Association and Stakeholders Dressman Darlinton-Gbolobofa told reporters in Abuja that the contractors were going through pains. - Advertisement - According to him, the association has sought the intervention of President Buhari, the National Security Adviser (NSA), Chief of Staff to the President, security agencies and other critical stakeholders on the matter. He warned that the contractors would return to the streets in the oil-bearing states if nothing is done before February 15. Announcing the temporary suspension of the protest at the NDDC gate, the contractors warned: “That the Association will protest simultaneously across the nine States of the Niger Delta region and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) should the Interim Administrator of the NDDC, Mr. Akwa Effiong  and the Minister of the Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio fail to meet our demand to pay Contractors by Tuesday, 15th of February, 2022. “The Niger Delta Indigenous Contractors will continue to request the NDDC to pay for services rendered creditably as competent and performing Contractors of the NDDC, while frowning at situation where Contractors will not be mobilized by the NDDC to execute projects, a situation where the Contractors will borrow money from banks at high interest rates to execute projects yet will be owed for five years and more without payment.”