FMDQ Securities Exchange has listed two commercial papers and four mutual funds worth about N154 billion, further deepening the tradable instruments at the Nigerian capital market. The newly admitted securities included a N100 billion commercial paper (CP) issuance by Providus Bank, a N50 billion CP issuance by NOVA Merchant Bank and N2.5 billion mutual funds and a $2 million Eurobond fund by Emerging Africa Asset Management Limited (EAAML). Providus Bank is a financial services provider licenced as a commercial bank to provide banking, investment and wealth management services to individuals and businesses. NOVA Merchant Bank provides financial services covering corporate banking, investment banking, advisory, capital markets, and wealth and asset management. Managing Director, NOVA Merchant Bank Limited, Mr. Nath Ude said the listing of the N50 billion CP programme on the FMDQ platform further gives credence to NOVA Merchant Bank’s beliefs in the debt capital market. - Advertisement - He said the new CP programme puts the bank in a position to broaden its potential funding sources and create superior value in the financial market which it serves. “This comes after the successful listing of our N10 billion bonds on FMDQ Exchange which was oversubscribed by 300 per cent last year. We remain driven by our aspiration to transform the African financial services landscape with fresh thinking and innovative solutions,” Ude said. FMDQ Exchange also listed one billion units of N1 each of Emerging Africa Money Market Fund, one billion units of N1 each of Emerging Africa Bond Fund, 20,000 units of $100 each of Emerging Africa Eurobond Fund and 500 million units of N1 each of Emerging Africa Balanced Diversity Fund, all under the management of Emerging Africa Asset Management Limited (EAAML). EAAML is a subsidiary of the Emerging Africa Group, which provides portfolio management services to individual and institutional investors globally. Managing Director, Emerging Africa Asset Management Limited (EAAML), Ms. Ada Ijara said the listing would give the funds the desired visibility and transparency provided by the platform.   ‘Saving culture important to surviving harsh economy’     SEC, CIS make case for professionalism     MTN Nigeria has potential for higher returns, say analysts   According to her, the four mutual funds, which are duly registered by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) provide corporate and individual investors with opportunities to invest in a wide range of underlying assets such as quoted equity stocks, bonds, Eurobonds, treasury bills and other fixed income instruments. “The Emerging Africa Money Market Fund invests in liquid and low risk assets while providing capital preservation and competitive returns. The Emerging Africa Bond Fund is suited for moderately conservative investors and offers better returns with moderate risk. The Emerging Africa Eurobond Fund provides a hedge against local currency volatility by investing in US Dollar denominated fixed income securities at competitive returns. The Emerging Africa Balanced Diversity Fund offers a moderate exposure to equities and fixed income whilst advancing gender diversity with its focus on equities of companies with proven gender diversity at board and management levels. “The four mutual funds offer great value to the investing public, catering to their varying risk appetites and investment preferences. We are grateful to FMDQ Exchange for providing benefits to the Funds listed on its platform, including but not limited to, global visibility through the dedicated ‘Funds’ page on the Exchange’s corporate website and price transparency to the funds through their inclusion in the FMDQ Daily Quotations List,” Ijara said. Group Chief Executive Officer, EAC Advisory Limited, Mrs. Toyin Sanni, the sponsor of the listing on FMDQ Exchange, described the mutual funds comprehensively innovative investment products. “We thank the SEC on the support provided for initiatives like this which broaden alternatives for retail investors, whilst providing robust regulatory oversight for the protection of investors. We are excited to partner once again with FMDQ to introduce superior products to the Nigerian capital market. We laud FMDQ for providing an efficient listing process, governance oversight, transparent pricing mechanism, and access to a broad investor base. The Emerging Africa Group will continue to partner with innovative Issuers to present attractive investment opportunities from African markets,” Sanni said. he Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) have underscored the importance of professionalism and ethics in the sustainable development of the capital market. At a meeting in Abuja, SEC, the apex capital market regulator and CIS, the largest self regulatory organisation (SRO) in the market, agreed that capital market operators need to maintain professionalism and good ethical conduct in the discharge of their duties. Director-General, SEC, Mr. Lamido Yuguda said professionalism and ethics make the market more transparent, thereby attracting more investors. He solicited the support of the CIS in the commission’s quest to improve professionalism and good conduct in the capital market while commending the institute for working in tandem with the overall interest of the market. “CIS has supported the SEC in our various initiatives in the past and we hope that this support will continue with the various initiatives we plan to roll out this year. We, therefore, urge the CIS to encourage its members to uphold the Code of Ethics of the profession and as contained in the Rules and regulations of the commission,” Yuguda said. SPONSORED