Vitafoam Nigeria Plc has seen more than 200 per cent increase in its share price at the stock market as the group sustained impressive growths in turnover and profitability. With 127 per cent increase in dividend recommended for the immediate past business, the group has released its first quarter unaudited results showing 47 per cent and 57 per cent growth in sales and profit respectively. The three-month results for the period ended December 31, 2021 showed that turnover rose by 46.7 per cent from N8.666 billion in comparable period of December 2020 to N12.716 billion in December 2021. Gross profit increased to N3.99 billion, 39.3 per cent increase on N2.86 billion recorded in 2020. Operating profit grew by 40 per cent from N1.69 billion to N2.37 billion. Profit before tax for the three-month period stood at N2.40 billion in December 2021 as against N1.53 billion in December 2020. After taxes, net profit increased by 51 per cent from N1.11 billion to N1.69 billion. Earnings per share thus increased from 89 kobo in December 2020 to N1.24 in December 2021. The first quarter results came on the heels of the release of the audited report and accounts for the year ended September 30, 2021. The full-year report showed that Vitafoam Nigeria rode on the back of substantial sales growth to improve its bottom-line, enabling the board of the foam-manufacturing group to recommend 127 per cent increase in dividend payout. The board of Vitafoam Nigeria is recommending total dividend payout of N2.224 billion for the 2021 business year as against N979.41 million paid for the 2020 business year. - Advertisement - According to the breakdown, shareholders on the register of the company as at the close of business on February 11, 2022 will receive a dividend per share of N1.50. Key extracts of the audited report and accounts of Vitafoam Nigeria for the year ended September 30, 2021 submitted at the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) showed that group turnover rose by 51.3 per cent from N23.44 billion in 2020 to N35.40 billion in 2021. Group profit before tax grew by 30 per cent to N7.34 billion in 2021 as against N5.65 billion in 2020. Group profit after tax increased by 12 per cent from N4.11 billion to N4.60 billion in 2021. With these, group earnings per share increased from N3.05 in 2020 to N3.39 in 2021. Further analysis on a standalone basis, showed that the parent company, Vitafoam Nigeria is contributing N1. 88 billion to the dividend payout, an increase of 114 per cent above N87. 59 million paid in 2020. The company’s turnover rose by 49 per cent to N32.01 billion in 2021 as against N21.82 billion in 2020. Profit before tax jumped by 37 per cent to N6.78 billion in 2021 compared with N4.96 billion recorded in 2020. Profit after tax increased from N3.46 billion to N4.38 billion. The company’s earnings per share rose from N2.76 in 2020 to N3.51 in 2021. Shareholders of the company are expected to approve the financial statements and dividend recommendation at their annual general meeting (AGM), scheduled for Thursday, March 3, 2022 at Raddison Blue Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos. The dividend shall thereafter be paid electronically on Friday, March 4, 2022. Group Managing Director, Vitafoam Nigeria Plc, Mr Taiwo Adeniyi, in a panel interview at the weekend gave insights into the operations of the group. According to him, the overall outlook for the manufacturing sector , long-term investments in diversified operations, innovative research and product development and an efficient marketing system have all positioned the Vitafoam Group for continuous growth and improving returns to shareholders. Factors driving growth Over the years, Vitafoam has witnessed trajectory growth from what it used to be and we have been very careful at doing what we know how to do best. The first thing is that for every growth that you have seen, it has been market-driven; market-driven in the sense that when you know what your market needs are and you work towards meeting those needs, then you have carefully won the heart of your customers. What used to be in the past was that people would sit at the factories and do all kinds of research and developments. They bring up all manners of innovations and push it to the market. At the end, they find out the market does not need them and it then becomes a useless effort. What has dramatically changed in the way we do things at Vitafoam is that we are now listening to our customers and because we listen to them, it makes the whole job easy. We do not benchmark ourselves with what is available in the market; we benchmark ourselves with global standards and what global standards said is that your product must be fit for a purpose. Every man going to the market has a purpose in his mind. If he goes there and the product aligns with that purpose, you have won the heart of the customer and I can assure you that behind all we do are research, resilient effort, and cohesiveness of our team working to achieve a common goal. Beyond that, we listen to customers more than before and do not forget that the current economy we run now doesn’t give room for people to throw money around. Consumers are careful about what they spend their money on which must be fit for purpose for them to decide on how to spend their money. And when we talk about fit for a purpose, it means quality and that is the reason why consumer buys our products all over the marketplace. Subsidiaries and group performance    Stockbrokers call for global write-off of Nigeria’s, others’…     Nigerian Breweries allots 78.9m shares     UK’s leading trade training body expands into Africa   I can proudly tell you that virtually all our subsidiaries are now in positive position. Even the one that used to be the ‘crying baby of the family’ has now turned positive. So you have from Vitablom, Vitavisco , Vitafoam Sierra Leone Limited, Vitafoam Nigeria and Vono. They are all contributing to the bottom line of the group. In the past, they used to take out of the purse but now, no matter how small, everyone of our subsidiaries contribute to the bottom line of the group. However, it has taken us this long to be able to bring them to a point where they can be contributing. I tell you some of them, in not too distant future, they will be bigger than Vitafoam. In the wisdom of the creation of these subsidiaries at that time, they are now doing very well. Some of them now supply part of materials that we used for production in Vitafoam which was part of the reasons we set up the subsidiaries at that time. Part of what that has contributed to profit of Vitafoam is the backward integration effort of the company. While others are running to Europe, other places to look for materials; those materials are manufactured by our subsidiaries and supplied to Vitafoam. When we are going to negotiating even the materials for production, you find out we are negotiating these materials from the point of strength. These are part of what we are benefiting from setting up these subsidiaries and they have been of tremendous help to the operations of Vitafoam. How sustainable is the increasing dividend payout? Our dividend payout is sustainable and you must understand that Vitafoam as a company does not do things by speculations. We take calculated risk and if you look at our performance, you will notice that it is highly sustainable. For years to come, our stakeholders will be smiling to the bank. Beyond rigid foam That is part of what we are trying to correct with a lot of our marketing activities recently. It is all about education. When people talked about Vitafoam, what usually comes to their mind is “from cradle to grave”. It was our payoff for so many years. Now, it has gone beyond that and it is a fine art of living. In order words, you get more from just a mattress. We give you comfort, we make your life worth living then just giving a mattress to sleep on. It is the public enlightenment that we are working on for now. We are a household name for all your sleep requirements. Your living environment can be enriched with Vitafoam products and we are now looking at your vehicles to provide comfort. We did a study and find out that in Nigeria there is currently no factory that produces oil filter and we have these numbers of vehicle in Nigeria. We are known for making life more comfortable for people and we have decided to make an investment in the production of oil filter. We have set up Vitapart Nigeria Limited to produce oil filter for our cars. Production has started and people are embracing it. International recognition In September 2021, a team of Journalists from British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) Television were at Vitafoam to shoot films and interview some officials about one of the company’s products for global education on how sleep positions impact health. The documentary was part of recognising and giving credence to what we do at Vitafoam. We did not influence them as they did their research and found out that it was Vitafoam that had what they need. They came around and did the documentary on one of our products. They educated the public that our sleep is important. What you sleep on is as the quality of sleep you get. Rising share price on the stock exchange  If you are an investor, where will you put your money? It goes to confirm the confidence investors have in Vitafoam Nigeria. They have seen the trajectory that it has been on the increase. If I have money to invest, I will invest in such company because if you look at our performance over the last five years, there has been consistent growth. We continue to record growth and it has gone beyond marginal increase. Vitafoam is a share a lot of investors want to buy on the NGX. If you check  it out, there are always activities, but there is not always enough shares to buy because those who own those shares see the performance keeps appreciating and they also want to keep their shares. Outlook for manufacturing sector We expect growth in the economy in 2022 and as we have been told, all indicators are pointing towards the manufacturing sector as one of the key drivers of the overall economic growth. The manufacturing sector over the years had been very quiet. But right now, what you find is that people have now settled in on how to price appropriately. As they price appropriately, they are now able to manage better their cost. In any case, it is a pre-election year, there will be more money to throw around and we are all going to benefit from it. The manufacturing sector is expected to be one of the drivers of the economy this year.