Worried by the rising spectre of bad loans which has rendered most affected deposit money banks almost prostrate, the apex body of banks, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has set machinery in motion to address this urgly trend, reports Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf From available information scooped up from those who should be in the know, The Nation can authoritatively report that the balance sheets of the majority of the deposit money banks are in the red, no thanks to the rising bad loans caused by some recalcitrant loan defaulters, many of who are yet to meet their loan obligations to their respective bank creditors. Naturally, to forestall a situation that led to the financial crisis in 2009, the apex regulatory body of banks in the country has moved in to prevent the inevitable from happening. No longer at ease with loan defaulters In what industry watchers and financial pundits described as a masterstroke strategy, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) at the weekend announced plans to place on its watch list the bank accounts of individuals who collected loans and have refused to honour terms and agreements. - Advertisement - CBN disclosed this in a new operational guidelines on the Global Standing Instructions (GSI) which it published on its website. The GSI is aimed at checking the spate of bad loans within the banking and financial services sector. According to the guidline signed by Chibuzo Efobi, for the Director, Financial Policy and Regulation Department of the apex bank, the initiative was conceived to address recurring instances of willful loan default in the industry. Efobi said that the guidelines would enhance the establishment of a “watch list” and identify recalcitrant loan defaulters and enhance loan recovery from all eligible and funded accounts in the industry. He added that it would also improve credit payment culture and reduce non-performing loans in the Nigerian banking system. “Consequently, please be informed that the frequency of recovery attempts via the GSI platform has been amended from a specific number to a continuous and unrestricted number,” he said. He said that the GSI automated loan recovery feature applicable to all loans in the industry shall remain perpetually in place throughout the life of the loan, or until it is fully repaid. He urged members of the banking public to check the CBN website for perusal of the guidelines. The GSI initiative was approved by the Bankers’ Committee at its meeting in February, 2020. The CBN, thereafter, collaborated with relevant stakeholders to develop necessary protocols to facilitate implementation of the GSI, for eligible loans granted with effect from August 28, 2019. Subsequently, the CBN released the circular on Operational Guidelines on the Global Standing Instruction (GSI} –  Individuals, dated July 13, 2020; Red No: FPRD/DIR/GEN/CIR/07/056. Overview of current loan debt portfolio in the banks From available information banks recorded non-performing loans of N1.3tn as of November 2021, which is still currently above the industry benchmark, according to the Central Bank of Nigeria. Figures obtained from the CBN recently showed that the bad loans represented 5.4 per cent of the total gross credit in the banking sector, which is higher than the 5.0 per cent prudential benchmark. The CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, said in a report, “Prudential indicators such as NPLs stood at 5.4 per cent in November 2021, while the CAR remained above 15 per cent indicating continued resilience of our banking system. “Total gross credit rose by over 21.1 per cent over the past year, from N19.4tn to N23.5tn.” The Monetary Policy Committee had at its last meeting urged the CBN to sustain current efforts to bring NPLs below five per cent. Emefiele, during the last Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria’s dinner in Lagos, said despite the challenges of the global COVID-19, the banking sector remained resilient. He said, “However, the banking sector remained robust and sound due to prompt response by the central bank in order to prevent an economic   SON, NFIU to address product counterfeiting     Barkindo: The last wiseman standing in OPEC     How brands are surviving fallouts of COVID-19: Knorr example   crisis from spilling over into a financial crisis. “As a result, the banking sector continued to consolidate on the gains of the recovery from the 2016 and 2017 recession. Although we saw some fragilities in the system, they constituted limited risks.” He said despite the pandemic, the banking sector increased its lending to the public. He said the CBN worked with the fiscal authorities in instituting strong policy support measures capped under the Economic Sustainability Plan, which was designed to contain the effects of the pandemic, restore stability to the economy by helping households and businesses affected by the pandemic and lift the economy out of the woods through massive interventions to critical sectors. He said, “Under this plan, the monetary and fiscal authorities collectively mobilised and injected over N5tn to support households and businesses. “It is gratifying to state that the Central Bank of Nigeria deployed more than N3.5tn – about 4.1 per cent of Nigeria’s GDP to critical sectors such as agriculture, manufacturing, electricity, and healthcare – in order to stimulate and help the economy recover from the deep shock.” Some other specific policy measures undertaken, he added, included reduction of the monetary policy rate from 13.5 per cent to 11.5 per cent to improve the flow of credit to households and businesses, and reduction of the interest rate on CBN intervention loans from nine to five per cent. He said the apex bank also extended the moratorium on principal repayments for CBN intervention facility to March 2022. According to the Chief Executive Officer of the Financial Derivatives Nigeria Company Bismarck Rewane bad bank loans signpost a negative. Rewane, who was the keynote speaker at a webinar organised by First Bank Plc on Nigerian Economic Outlook for 2022, recently, said the spectre of bad in the bad  was an ill  wind which blows no good even as he warned that banks need to step up efforts at proper due diligence to prevent unwarranted circumstances caused by bad loans. The economist added that the government also need to cut down on its borrowings in order not to impoverish its citizens. In the view of Matthew Ibemere, an economic analyst, the present non-performing loans in Nigeria reflects the socioeconomic health of the nation’s banking system. According to him, a higher percent of such loans shows that banks have difficulty collecting interest and principal on their credits. Thus may lead to less profits for the banks in Nigeria and, possibly, bank closures. Bank nonperforming loans to total gross loans are the value of nonperforming loans divided by the total value of the loan portfolio including nonperforming loans before the deduction of specific loan-loss provisions, he stressed, adding that the loan amount recorded as nonperforming should be the gross value of the loan as recorded on the balance sheet, not just the amount that is overdue. Echoing similar sentiments, Mallam Hakeem Mushafi, a financial services expert, maintained that the non-performing loan (NPL) is a loan in which the borrower has not made repayments of principal and/or interest for at least 90 days. Nigerian banks bad loans ratio meets threshold on restructuring, economy, he stressed. The NPL ratio will likely remain below 5% this year “on the back of relatively high oil prices and the gradual improvement in Nigeria’s economic outlook.” The improvement in December is surprising after anticipation that a surge in bad loans was a risk as the economy hobbled along. This is just as a central banker also recently warned that NPL levels didn’t fully capture the state of asset quality because of the regulatory relief and moratoriums on repayments. Instead, commercial banks lifted waivers on interest payments in 2021 and moved to recover some of their bad loans without any deterioration in asset quality. The prospects are now brighter still because Africa’s largest economy is growing again after its worst contraction in almost three decades in 2020, with the central bank forecasting growth around 3% this year. But the rebound could have its drawbacks. The share of bad debt could rise to 5.5% this year if credit growth reaches 10% as expected, according to Eugene Okey, an economic development expert. The question of the hour is how far can charmed offensive achieve any significant change in the bad loan dynamics? Time will tell.