President Muhammadu Buhari has urged Nigerians to be lovers of peace and live a life of sacrifice, to make enduring impact. The President made the call during the interment service of Ngo Zimi Pam, the mother of the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Christians Pilgrims Commission (NCPC), Rev. Yakubu Pam. The service was held on Saturday at the Tahei Polo Field, Gyel, in Jos South Local Government Area. Buhari described the deceased as a selfless mother, who inculcated good moral upbringing to her children and rendered humanitarian services to indigents in her community. The president, who was represented by the Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Dame Pauline Tallen, urged children to honour their mothers so that they could live long and receive blessings. - Advertisement - In his remarks, the governor of Plateau, Mr. Simon Lalong, said that the deceased was a devout Christian and community leader, who gave her best to the service of God and humanity. He said that she mentored many people who became great in society while urging her family to take solace in her legacy of good works. In his tribute, the chairman of the Nigerian Governors Forum, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, described the deceased as a selfless woman, who took care of not only her children but also the indigent children in her community. He said she lived a good life and impacted many people as shown in the testimonies given in her honour.   Doping: Blessing Okagbare breaks silence on 10-year ban     Osun APC primary: Gov Oyetola wins Lasun’s ward     Funding for two new vasities in 2022 budget, take-off…   He urged Nigerians to emulate her good works. in his remarks, the chairman of the Arewa Consultative Forum, Chief Audu Ogbe, said the deceased would remain an intercessor for her children and the state even in death. He urged Plateau people to pray without ceasing for peace in the state to shore up development. “Concentrate on prayers night and day and the Lord will bring peace to the land,” he said. While praying for the family of the deceased, the President of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Rev. Samson Ayokunle, commiserated with the NCPC boss and eulogised the deceased as a virtuous woman. In his response, the NCPC boss thanked Nigerians for the show of love and for honouring his mother, who was his source of strength, prayer warrior, and counselor. Pam said he was consoled that she witnessed his ascension to different positions before she died. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that dignitaries at the event included the Executive Secretary of TETfund Prof. Suleiman Bogoro, former ministers, legislators, religious and traditional leaders as well as top government officials, among others. Late Ngo Zimi Pam died on Jan. 15 at the age of 97.   (NAN) SPONSORED