Anambra State Police Commissioner Mr. Echeng Echeng has advised the 83 newly-promoted officers to redouble their efforts towards fighting crimes. He said their new positions required high level of professionalism and dedication, warning that laxity and incivility would not be tolerated. Addressing the officers before they were decorated with insignias of their new ranks at the command headquarters, Amawbia, Echeng urged them to ensure that lives and property were protected. He said: “The symbolism of this ceremony is important to us because the young officers have recorded a new milestone in their careers. Each of you has been considered worthy by the IGP after looking into your records and finding that you are fit. “The new rank comes with greater responsibility, dedication and discipline. What you’re experiencing today is preparing you for future leadership of the force. If you’re the lousy type, you won’t get there.   Judge’s family, businessman clash over eviction claims     How Sylvester Omoroni died, by family doctor     MC Oluomo qualified to be Oshodi monarch, says royal family…   - Advertisement - “Our problems are peculiar. You’re not promoted to go back to sleep. You are promoted to work 24 hours to provide security for lives and property. “For those of you who think you can go to your house and sleep, be ready to do the job alone. You have to supervise the men under you to enforce discipline. Your character and dedication will come into play.” While congratulating the officers on behalf of the Inspector-General of Police, Alkali Baba Usman, the CP prayed God to grant them grace to contribute to the growth of the force. Among the newly-promoted officers were a Superintendent of Police promoted to Chief Superintendent of Police, 15 Deputy Superintendent of Police elevated to Superintendent of Police and 67 Assistant Superintendent of Police 2 promoted to Assistant Superintendent of Police 1. One of the promoted officers, ASP Mike Ugwu, thanked the IGP and the Police Service Commission for finding them worthy of the promotion, promising to redouble his efforts in discharging his duties professionally.