LAGOS State House of Assembly has promised to intervene in the crisis rocking Etegbin community in Oto-Awori Local Council Development Area following allegations of land grabbing by suspected hoodlums. Members of the community were at the House of Assembly complex to protest the invasion of their land and destruction of property by hoodlums. They carried placards with inscriptions, such as: “Etegbin community has been displaced by land grabbers”;  “Hon  Surajudeen Tijani, land grabbers are terrorising your constituency”; among others. Residents pleaded with Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and lawmakers to rescue them from harassment. They also accused Muraina Azeez, an indigene, of hiring Morufu Owonla, aka Kaka, to disrupt the peace in their community. Their spokesperson, Bolaji Aiyepe, said: “We are here to register our displeasure about the activities of a land grabber, Moroof Owonla, who was hired by Alhaji Muraina Azeez, an indigene, to cause mayhem in our community. “He is claiming the community belongs to him because, according to him, his father willed the entire land to him being the only son.   ‘Youths targets for subversive influence, others’     ‘Whistleblowers should be protected’     ‘Boys deserve attention too’   “The chiefs and king have invited him twice but he declined. There was also a court sitting last Wednesday and the chiefs invited him but Azeez didn’t show up. But, on Friday, he invaded the community with armed policemen and hoodlums, destroyed property, burnt the community market and boats used for transportation … “Our people have been displaced from their homes, some of our youths were arrested and have since been in custody. The hoodlums also threatened to return on Sunday for more attacks. Lawmaker representing Alimosho I Bisi Yusuff, who addressed the protesters, praised them for their peaceful disposition. He promised that the House would intervene to ensure justice is served. “Your letters and placards would be collected and handed over to the Committee on Public Petition for further investigation. “We would investigate your allegations, invite the other party to form a balanced opinion. We would also deliver your petition to the Speaker. We can assure you we would be just and fair in handling the issue. “Lagos has laws and we will work with the law to bring justice to this matter.”