Senator Francis Alimikhena has dismissed reports of a rift between him and the immediate past National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. There have been reports in the media encouraging Oshiomhole to contest the Edo North Senatorial ticket in 2023 occupied by Alimikhena. Alimikhena, in a statement in Abuja, called on those spreading false rumour and blackmail to tread cautiously and exercise restraint in their utterances so as not to heat up the polity ahead of the 2023 general election. He expressed fears that democracy in Nigeria could be brought to premature grief through intemperate utterances of some major actors. He insisted that nation-building cannot be established on a foundation where division appears to run deeper than its democracy. - Advertisement - The Edo North Senator mocked detractors and blackmailers for standing facts on their heads stressing there is no running battle or misunderstanding between Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and himself.   INEC flayed over slow pace of voter registration in Ondo     ‘Dialogue, brute force will halt insecurity’     ‘I have a robust plan for Delta South’   “Those attempting to set us apart through unguarded utterances and blackmail will definitely achieve the opposite of their expectations because the party’s victory is more important. It is only a united party that can win elections,” he said. The lawmaker described peace and unity as a tool for advancement and development. He emphasised that unity is the only immunity against the breakdown of law and order in any society. “Those who are creating confusion through blackmail in the party are like men who set their houses ablaze and run out screaming fire, fire! “All hands must be on deck to move our party forward and not by peddling rumours and promoting conflict through unrestraint utterances. “Unlike some who twist the concept of democracy to suit themselves, I have committed myself to doing the best for Edo North’s people. “While I will continue to pursue the larger interest of our people, it behooves on the people to remain committed to the peace and unity that binds us rather than engaging in blackmail and other unproductive ventures,” he added.