SOME pensioners are agitating for the payment of either 75 or 100 per cent of the benefit in their pension account. They argue that it is their entitlement and should be given to them in full. According to them, they have worked for 30 to 35 years and thus  could manage their investments. A pensioner Uwaifor Oga wrote on the Facebook, “Allow pensioners withdraw all their savings If they wish. pension fund administrators are exploiting us”. He said: “The pension manipulations should be stopped by Nigerians. I was very happy when the Senate recently made a move to amend the Pension Act to enable Nigerians withdraw up to 75 per cent of their cumulative savings. The liberty should even extend to allowing pensioners withdraw their whole sum if he or she so wish. The law could also give pensioners the liberty to either withdraw their total sum or give the PFAs the kind of investments they want with their hard-earned funds. - Advertisement - “After hitting 65 or spent 35 years in active service to your nation, gathering experiences in finance, administration, among others, PFAs still refer to you as a novice; you don’t know how to handle your hard-earned entitlements! A retiree, Joshua Arinze, said: “I need my money. I can do better business than the pension managers.” Another said: “I want to cash out my pension. But no. Money in your pension account is not your money.   Plan your estate, Leadway urges     Pension complaints and solutions     Pension complaints and solutions   “On a lighter note, eight per cent of the money can be said to be your money. The other 10 per cent belongs to your employer, whether in the private or public sector.” According to the Pension Reform Act (PRA) 2014, the minimum rate of contributions under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) is 18 per cent of the employee’s monthly emoluments where 10 per cent is contributed by the employer and eight per cent is contributed by the employee. In some cases, some employers make the contribution of 18 per cent for their employees without making any deductions from their salaries. A pension expert, Sola Subomi, said the argument lacked merit, querying if the pensioners agitating for a 100 per cent pension pay-out know how the country’s pension system fared before 2004, with over N2trillion in pension deficit. He said: “If all of them are knowledgeable in investment, why do we have investment managers? The Federal Government under former President Olusegun Obasanjo spent thousands of man hours to get the best for the nation to put the pension mess behind us. Nations were under studied and visited. The person should go and read the pension act and see the pains taken to make it work and safety measures.’’ Another expert said: “Unfortunately for the agitators of 100 per cent pension payout, it is beyond their choice not to subscribe to CPS because it is compulsory. And this is so because government does not want them to become a destitute cum liability. “If pensioner is claiming that he or she is a financial expert, then they wouldn’t need to agitate for pension money because they should have huge savings from salaries earned during the period they were in active service. I bet many of them don’t have any savings. Otherwise, he or she won’t be looking the way of pension. “The agitators need to be educated and legislators seeking 75 or 100 per cent pension that it is not in entirety their money. Government contributed a portion as its own social security scheme and made private employers to do same”, he noted.