The Eastern Naval Command of the Nigerian Navy has disclosed that it has deactivated 175 illegal refineries while arresting 27 vessels under 11 months in its areas of operations. The Command further revealed that 35,384,718 Metric tonnes of illegally refined AGO were evacuated while several pirates, kidnappers hideouts were destroyed. Speaking during his handing over ceremony  on Friday, the outgone Flag Officer Commanding, FOC, Eastern Naval Command, Rear Adm. Sanusi Kazeem Ibrahim said under his watch, there was a considerable reduction of piracy in Nigeria’s maritime domain. - Advertisement - His words: “The Command sustained effective patrols of its maritime Area of Responsibility (AOR), as well as undertook several Clearance and Swamp Buggy operations in the backwaters. “These operations resulted in a considerable reduction of piracy in Nigeria’s maritime domain, as well as led to the arrest of 27 vessels engaged in illegal bunkering, crude oil theft and other maritime illegalities. “Other achievements include deactivation of about 175 illegal refining sites and still counting, evacuation of about 35,384,718 metric tonnes of illegally refined AGO and destruction of several pirates as well as kidnappers hideouts. “Of particular interest is the recent arrest of MT PREYOR 1 on 5 Jan 22 conveying about 2,458,350 litres of crude oil in her cargo tanks and additional 10,000 litres of AGO in her service tanks without requisite approval. “There is also an ongoing OP RIVER DOMINANCE initiated by NNS PATHFINDER in conjunction with the Rivers State government. This operation intensified riverine patrols in addition to establishing waterborne guard posts along the check points. “Huge successes were recorded which include the arrest of 13 suspects, 14 large wooden boats laden with illegally refined AGO as well as 3 barges each carrying about a million litres of suspected stolen crude oil. “This is in addition to the Command’s anti-smuggling efforts which led to the seizure of over 3,147 bags of 50kg parboiled foreign rice as well as 1,184  25kg bags of fertilizers amongst others,” he stated. Speaking further he called on the officers and men of the command to support the incoming FOC in a bid to surpass his own achievements. On his part, the new FOC, Eastern Naval Command, Rear Adm Abdulahi Dewu also called on Officer to assist him in his quest to maintain the tempo of his predecessor adding that he cannot achieve anything alone. Dewu said: “The responsibilities  of the command are very high and demanding that we must go over and beyond the call to duty in securing the maritime domain towards  ensuring the peace and security of land towards engendering the prosperity of our great nation. “I must however state that I’m only the head of the command, and I need the support of the entire body to achieve my goals, I therefore solicit the support of everyone to make this happen,” he said.   51 monarchs receive Staff of office in Imo     Actors, directors, producers speak on Nollywood’s…     ALEX O: Wizkid, Burna Boy, Davido are achieving unbelievable…   Wike to monarchs: don’t allow illegal refineries in your domains Meanwhile, Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has warned traditional rulers against allowing illegal refineries to operate within their domains. The governor, who vowed to sustain the war against illegal oil bunkering and artisanal refining activities, specifically warned the King of Akpor in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area and the King of Omerelu in Ikwerre against allowing such activities in their domains. Wike spoke when he presented staff of office and certificates of recognition to His Royal Majesty,  Nne-Nwe-Eli Emohua XIII (OLO IV), Ohna Sergeant Chidi Awuse, and His Royal Majesty, Nye Nwe Ali Akpor, Eze Ozuowuowu Levi Amos Orlu Oriebe at Government House, Port Harcourt on Friday. Nne-Nwe-eli Emohua XIII (OLO IV) and Nye Nwe Ali Akpor are First Class  stools in Emohua and Obio/Akpor Local Government Areas respectively. The governor said the state government would depose  the King of Akpor kingdom if illegal oil bunkering continued in Rumuokparali and Ogbogoro communities. He was also unhappy with the king of Omerelu community in Ikwerre Local Government Area where illegal oil bunkering activities still thrive. He said besides the soot and economic sabotage associated with the criminal activities, they damaged the internal roads being reconstructed by his administration in Omerelu. He said: “We are doing internal roads in Omerelu. This is a community that has been crying for roads and we have given them not less than 11/12 kilometers of internal roads, and now they’re spoiling it because of the conveying of the products. We can’t continue to accept that. I can’t understand why you just want to collect the chieftaincy title and do nothing.” Wike asked the two kings to ensure peace in their domains by resolving all conflicts to avoid crises. He also charged them to stop partisan politics and work in synergy with the government to promote governance at the grassroots. He said: “This certificate of recognition comes with a lot of responsibilities. Do what you’re expected. Relate with government to know what is going on. “When once you alert government, you’ve done your own work. But if you don’t alert government, it’ll be considered that you’re part of it.” Wike said the demolition of shanties would continue because hoodlums use such places as hideouts to perpetrate their criminal activities. He said the state also recovered government properties fraudulently acquired by retired civil servants. “Civil servants will retire and change documents and forge it that they had allocation twenty years ago for State government property. I am taking them back, all,” he said.