An Upper Area Court in Zuba, Abuja has revoked the bail granted popular ‘kayanmata’ seller, Hauwa Saidu aka Jaruma. The presiding judge, Ismail Abdullahi Jibrin, revoked the bail and ordered for her re-arrest following the failure of Jaruma and her counsel to appear in court. Abdullahi ordered that the aphrodisiac merchant be remanded at the Suleja Correctional Centre until March 17, 2022 when the case comes up again. The judge became furious after Jaruma and her lawyer failed to show up and didn’t send any representative. A lawyer, who described himself as a friend of the court, appealed to the judge to give them more time in a bid of fairness to all parties. Accepting the lawyer’s plea, the court gave the defendant and her counsel two more hours to appear or send a representative before giving his ruling Yet nobody showed even after the two-hour grace period elapsed.   Last Man Standing, biopic of Tinubu, not a propaganda, says…     Actor Saint Obi, estranged wife battle for custody of kids     DJ Cuppy expresses mixed feelings over return to school   Seeing the play out of events, the prosecution lawyer, Inegbinoise Edwin appealed to the court to revoke her bail, since she jumped bail and refused to appear in court. As a result, the judged became infuriated and explained the act was a mockery to the court and Judiciary noting it will be erroneous for the court not to take action on such. “I hereby issue Bench warrant against one Hauwa Saidu Mohammed also known as Jaruma, I order the surety to show cause and explain to us why she refused to appear in court” “This case is adjourned to March 17, 2022”, said the judge. Jaruma was arrested on January 12 after Ned Nwoko complained she alleged that Regina used her products to ‘grab’ Ned Nwoko, a claim the latter refuted. She was remanded in prison custody following a petition by Regina Daniel and her billionaire husband, Ned Nwoko. According to reports, Jaruma was remanded at the Suleja Correctional Centre by an Abuja Upper Area Court after she was arraigned by the police for alleged false news publication, intimidation and defamation of character.