The Lagos State government will soon launch a new resident identity card. It will function like a typical smart payment card, but with many other benefits, reports Deputy News Editor JOSEPH JIBUEZE. The days of carrying multiple cards may soon be over in Lagos. The state is pushing on with its smart city drive and plans to re-launch the citizen registration programme next month. Each resident will be issued a smart card that is much more than a means of identification. The card chip will host a banking application and 26 generic application slots designed as a multipurpose tool. - Advertisement - For instance, rather than having a resident card and separate cards for accessing transportation and other services in the state, the new card will be a one-stop ID that functions across platforms. For residents, the card offers the benefits of ease of payment, financial inclusion opportunities, access to public services and means of identification. The elderly will enjoy benefits/discounts while residents can pay fines through it, access parks, stadia and libraries; enjoy medical benefits, bursaries, bike/car sharing rides, insurance, social subsidies, amongst others. The Lagos State Residents Registration Agency (LASSRA), with the approval of the state executive council, is on course to complete what it has dubbed LASRRA 2.0. The objectives are to identify every resident and maintain a rich database of everyone living in Lagos, provide data for social and welfare interventions, issue multipurpose smart cards, and improve efficiency in accessing government services. The project is part of the state’s smart city agenda and is in partnership with private sector entities. LASRRA will implement and provide access to a core set of services, operations and processes; the partners will complete the other complementary aspects of the programme. The database, containing both demographic and biometric data of all Lagos residents, will aid effective planning and allocation of resources for security, education, health and financial inclusion. So far, the agency has deployed enrolment and validation portals and reopened and deployed 57 LASRRA outlets and 16 enrolment partners. It has developed the 28 applet card supporting multiple uses, with Sterling Bank as the first issuing partner. LASRRA GeneralManager Mrs Ibilola Kasunmu, at a briefing on the milestones, said the Lagos Resident ID Card has provisions for 28 applets of which three are activated at the point of collection: the electronic identity information (e-ID), EMV (Europay, Mastercard and Visa) and transportation (LAMATA) access. “The remaining 25 applets will be implemented with both public and private partners in subsequent phases,” she said. The agency has already engaged a few partners, including the state health management agency (LASHMA) for the health application; the state pension commission (LASPEC) for the pension application, and the Lekki Concession (LCC) for toll collections. The LASRRA database, as of December 21, 2021, has 4.46 million enrolments, with 3.25 million subject to validation for proof of life and 1.04 million ready for card printing. Mrs Kasunmu, an engineer, explained how the project fits into the state’s THEMES agenda of Traffic management and transportation; Health and environment; Education and technology; Making Lagos a 21st century economy; Entertainment and tourism and Security and governance. The state, she said, needs accurate information on the exact number of residents vis a vis demographics for effective deployment of buses and bus-stops.   Fibre optic cables will enhance Lagos security     ‘Right financing can boost agribusiness sector’     Stellas Digital Bank’s app makes debut   It will enable the government to determine fare discounts for registered students and pensioners on state buses. “The card will ensure that each resident would remain a unique and identifiable individual,” she said. In the health sector, the database will help in the deployment of health centers and determine discounts for treatment via state health insurance schemes for registered residents and pensioners. The card guarantees better security screening, facilitates quick processing of state-related documents for residents and eliminates identity fraud. Mrs Kasunmu said the LASRRA 2.0 follows the 1.0, which active registration started in 2013. All residents irrespective of state of origin are to register to enjoy the new multi-purpose card. Residents begin the enrolment process by providing basic information online (https://registration.lagosresidents.gov.ng/) before the biometrics capture at any of the centres located in every council secretariat or the 16 enrolment partners. There is also a mobile team that moves street to street to register residents, as well as a special registration team that visits organisations on request. For those in uncompleted buildings, community leaders are engaged to help identify them so they can be captured in the database. On why the state has not yet set a mandate or timeline for the registration, Mrs Kasunmu said: “Before we attach a mandate or consequence for not registering, we need to let residents know they are meant to register and why. “We’re embarking on an advocacy drive. We’re encouraging those already registered to validate their record.” The General Manager said the non-smart old cards will be retrieved and residents issued with the new cards. “Most of the old cards will soon expire and people will be issued with the new smart card that comes with all the benefits,” she said. On how the project is funded, she said the state is responsible for the backend infrastructure, while the partners, such as banks, will finance the cost of the card issuance. “Any financial institution that we partner with will be responsible for financing the card. So, the cost of production is not on the state government,” Mrs Kasunmi said. The validity of the card is five years and has “robust” security features. “Right now, what we have is hack-proof, at least until that hacker that can breach our database is born.  We have partners who are licensed to print such cards,” she said. According to the GM, the other applets on the card can be configured and enabled at any time. On eligibility, Mrs Kasunmu said: “Anybody who plans to be in Lagos for three months or longer is eligible to be registered. Children can get the card as well. “Once launched, hopefully next month, a card should be issued within two weeks from the point of registration. “Once issued, it can be used as an EMV payment card, for e-ID and for use in the transport system. “We hope that between now and the launch, we would have on-boarded LASHMA (which has a separate card) and pension.’’ SPONSORED