A Group, South East for Tinubu (SET), has said former Lagos State Governor Asiwaju Bola Tinubu will receive massive support in the Southeast and Southsouth during the 2023 presidential election. The convener, Nwosu Emmanuel, said in Awka after the group’s inaugural meeting that SET has begun massive mobilisation through public enlightenment and persuasion to ensure Tinubu wins the hearts of voters in the region. He said Tinubu would win more votes in the presidential election in the Southeast and Southsouth than any other candidate that had contested in recent time, having paid his dues in Nigerian politics. Nwosu said: “There is no politician in this country that has recorded the feat Tinubu has recorded in politics. He is a builder of men and resources. In Lagos, he laid a master plan, midwifed and engineered it, and Lagos becomes what it is today. “Tinubu is the only politician in Nigeria that has mentored the highest number of politicians; strategically pooling them, placing them in strategic positions and giving them wings to fly.   Parties warned against choosing governorship candidates…     PDP slams Ebonyi Assembly for declaring lawmakers’ seats…     Defection: Suit seeking Umahi’s sack dismissed   “He kept helping others to become what they wanted to become; while his contemporaries were busy contesting the presidential position. This is the kind of leader that will build Nigeria and its people. “APC has zoned presidency to the South. As we speak, there is a seemingly bad blood between the Southeast and other regions.  For that reason, it will be foolhardy for any Southeasterner to think that an average Northerner will support or vote for a Southeast candidate in 2023. “An average Northerner still believes that a Southeasterner hates him. He looks at an average Southeasterner with suspicion, especially because of the agitation for secession. “The Southeast, as a matter of right and necessity, should be given the opportunity to produce the country’s president in 2023. Unfortunately, political calculation is not automatic. As it stands, Southeast has not got solid handshake with others that will help it produce the president. “It is our belief that Tinubu is the most qualified for the president and Northerners are already mobilising for him. If the Southeast also gives its support, it will succeed in building good alliance, friendship and bonding that will make others accept and support its candidate in the next opportunity. “Instead of agitations, the Southeast should start to negotiate, build friendship and alliances, to grab future opportunities.”