The African Airlines Association (AFRAA) and the African Civil Aviation Commission (AFCAC) have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU)  to facilitate the achievement of their objectives as well as  enhance  the interests of their members. Specifically, the pact will examine the impact of taxes and charges for airlines on the continent and other costs components in the air transport sector. The pact was signed by Abdérahmane Berthé, AFRAA’s secretary-general and Ms. Angeline Simana, AFCAC’s acting secretary-general. Under the MoU, AFRAA and AFCAC will work on various areas covering aviation safety, adoption of  air transport liberalisation, implementation of Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM), efficiency of air navigation systems, technology advancement as well as aviation security and facilitation. Other areas covered on the pact include: aviation eco-system, human capital development, infrastructure and regional integration. - Advertisement - Other areas covered by the pact include,  exchange  of statistical data, information and best practices as well as aviation-related studies. Berthé said: “AFRAA and AFCAC share the common objective of promoting the development of a safe, reliable, efficient and environmentally sustainable air transport system in Africa and thereby effectively contributing to the continent’s socio-economic development and integration. ‘’Consultation and close cooperation between AFRAA and AFCAC will facilitate our effective participation and contribution to the overall sustainability of the air transport industry as well as the implementation of our industry projects, initiatives and actions.” “AFRAA is delighted to sign this MoU with AFCAC that will forge a stronger working relationship between our two organizations for the development of air transport in Africa.”   Kerosene price declines by 6.60% in January – NBS     RT 200 FX programme requires infrastructure, funding, says…     Nigeria in mixed fortune on grains, oil seeds export   Also speaking, Ms. Angeline Simana said : “We are excited that our joint programmes as outlined in the MoU would enable us to work together to create a conducive environment for the air transport industry in Africa. Our collaboration will capitalize on our respective strengths and areas of expertise to better meet the needs of all stakeholders.” Investigations reveal that Niger, Liberia, Guinea Bissau, Senegal, Bangui, Sierra Leone, Republic of Congo, and Nigeria top the list of African countries with high airport taxes. These airport taxes  as high as some European countries  have met stiff resistance from the International Air Transport Association (IATA). Niamey, Niger Republic tops the list by charging passengers $162 on regional departure in African airports, followed by Monrovia (Liberia) $145; Guinea Bissau $137; Dakar, Senegal $116; Douala, Cameroon $115; Bangui $111; Freetown, Sierra Leone $109 and Nigeria $100. International travelers at Bamako, Mali, Antananarivo, Madagascar, Cotonou, Benin Republic, Kinshasa, Zaire pay $99; $91, $88, $77 respectively. In Accra, Ghana it costs $77, N’djamena $68, Djibouti $67, Cairo 467, Lome, Togo $62, Entebbe, Uganda is $57. Charges by other African nations oscillate between $50 and $3. Airports in Europe charge less than in Africa in terms of taxes and fees on arrival and transfer. The average amount of transfer taxes and fees in Africa is $36.02 compared to $17.55 in Europe. Taxes and fees on arrival are $8.81 in Europe, while $12.32 in Africa. While airlines attempt to offer low fares to passengers, taxes and fees can bring the total price of a ticket to more than double the base fare. Given the low purchasing power in Africa, it is urgent to assess the issue of high taxes and fees, to stimulate the demand and make air transport affordable to African citizens. Apart from passengers taxes that are levied directly on the ticket, airlines have to face many other charges related to their operations at the airport level. Some of them are landing, noise, parking, Common User Terminal Equipment (CUTE), Jetway charge, passenger bus, lighting, counter, fire fighting and prevention, check-in, ground power unit, ground handling, follow-me, hangar, housing, terminal, towing and push-back Mogadishu, Somalia is the most expensive airport for airlines charges, with more than $2,000 for an international flight, while a busy airport like Algiers charges $158 in the same conditions. The average amount of charges paid is $624, but 53 per cent of the airports are charging less than $ 600. SPONSORED