Thousands of Africans fleeing Ukraine, especially students, have lamented alleged maltreatment and passport seizure by Ukrainians at the borders. They accused officials of racial discrimination in Ukraine, alleging that they were not allowed to cross the borders. The Nation reports the Federal Government had directed Nigerians fleeing Ukraine to four Polish borders for their safety. The Chairman/CEO, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, in a viral video on Saturday, said out of the eight borders between Poland and Ukraine, four had been recommended for Nigerians to use. Ukraine is home to thousands of African students who study medicine, engineering, and other technical fields. Checks by The Nation show Morocco, Nigeria and Egypt are in the top 10 countries with students in Ukraine. The students, took to social media platforms especially Twitter, to detail their painful experiences, ranging from trekking long distances and surviving the cold, to experiencing racism in the face of danger. The alleged ill-treatment is amid suggestion of Hungary, Budapest and Slovakia borders as alternatives for Africans fleeing Ukraine. The Russian military launched an offensive against Ukraine last Thursday. A stranded Nigerian student @nzekiev tweeted: “Been at the Poland-Ukraine border for the past 5 hours & they’re segregating.   Terrorists storm wedding, abduct bride, others in Niger     NDLEA intercepts 649, 300 tramadol, 809, 850 Euros     Internet interruptions: Elon Musk activates satellites in…   “Ukrainians the other side, Africans & other foreigners on the other side. Like 100 Ukrainians first, then two Africans & other foreigners. Well, if their citizens leave, who will fight for them? We? “They actually wanted to crush us with their bus, and even pointed guns at us while we were shouting “we are students, allow us to cross” because we didn’t allow them to cross their people first before us. We forced our way in, and they gave up. I have these on video record.” Dr. Ayoade Alakija also tweeted: “Black Africans are being treated with racism and contempt in Ukraine & Poland. West cannot ask African nations to stand in solidarity with them if they cannot display basic respect for us even in a time of war. Ignored in a pandemic and left to die in war?!! UNACCEPTABLE.” Reacting, Nigeria’s Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama stated that he had spoken with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Dmytro Kuleba. He noted that Kuleba denied the alleged maltreatment and the “Problem is the result of chaos on the border and check points leading to them” Onyeama said: “I spoke on the phone with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Dmytro Kuleba. Expressed sympathy for the needless loss of life and destruction and reiterated Nigeria’s recognition of Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. “I also expressed concern at the news of Ukrainian border guards hindering the exit of Nigerian citizens. He asserted that Ukrainian border guards have been instructed to allow all foreigners to leave. He promised to investigate and revert quickly. “The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine reverted to state: “It’s official: no restrictions for foreign nationals to leave the country exist. Problem is the result of chaos on the border and check points leading to them”. “I am personally coordinating with our missions in Ukraine, Poland, Russia, Romania and Hungary to ensure we get our citizens out of Ukraine and bring back to Nigeria those ready to return, while supporting those who are remaining in Ukraine.”