Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-olu has  approved the creation of Tertiary Drains Squad (TDS) in the 57 Local Governments and Local Council Development Areas in the state. The Special Adviser on Drainage and Water Resources, Joe Igbokwe, made this known at the second stakeholders’ meeting with LGs and LCDAs on cleaning and maintenance of tertiary drains in Lagos. According to Igbokwe, the Squad will complement the Emergency Flood Abatement Gang at the state level to ensure that tertiary drains properly discharge into primary and secondary drains. He explained that with the employment of 50 drainage attendants that would be paid a minimum of N35,000 monthly, the councils would spend less, but achieve more, compared to what they spend to clean tertiary drains. He added that each council must adopt the strategy that suits it. - Advertisement - He rereiterated that the meeting was one of the measures put in place to enable the state and local governments strategise on drainage channels.  He declared that it was high time that LG and LCDAs take ownership of tertiary drains to reduce the pressure of desilting and cleaning of the secondary and primary channels where the state government has continued to engage human and financial resources. “I am confident that this second forum will afford us the opportunity to agree on best practices to resolve all the issues concerning the cleaning and maintenance of tertiary drains which are the drains that run across our tenements and how local councils should be at the forefront of monitoring and compelling residents to clean the tertiary drains across the state,” he said.   ‘We fulfil our obligations’     Lagos NIS seeks law on periodic monitoring of buildings     Reviving abandoned projects   Permanent Secretary, Office of Drainage Services and Water Resources, Lekan Shodeinde said the time had come for councils to take up their constitutional roles of tertiary drainage maintenance, stressing that all hands must be on deck as the administration is determined to ensure a flood-free Lagos. in line with the vision the State Government. Shodeinde explained that there should be no excuse of inhibitions from political leaders in the discharge of their duties as far as such projects and intentions are well laid out. He said they must be bold to tackle challenges of having a cleaner environment, by always insisting on the right action always in a bold way meeting is about seeking continuous buy- in of the Local Government Councils/LCDAs in ensuring the regular cleaning of the tertiary drains across the 57 to complement the effort of the State towards regular maintenance and cleaning of the secondary and Primary channels. He disclosed that the State Drainage Engineers and Coordinators are available in all our 57 Local Governments Areas and Local Council Development Areas to complement the efforts of Local Government Councils with the maintenance and cleaning of tertiary drains at all time. He appealed to Lagosians to always report cases of drainage blockages, indiscriminate dumping of waste into canals and other unauthorized places to the state Government through the CITIMONITOR APP from Google play store and IStore to report any environmental infraction across the state. In his remarks, President, Head of Sanitation in Local Governments, Dr Samuel Akingbein appealed that such meetings would in future involve the Physical Planning authorities. He said this has became necessary because many infractions especially construction on tertiary drains have often been attributed to planning authorities.