An efficient trading regime does not only require insightful information regarding the markets. On top of education and knowledge, it’s also important to use several tools mainly because the insights they provide you with can be useful for risk management, as well as fundamental and technical analysis. Luckily most of these tools are available for free. If you are not yet familiar with terms like risk of ruin, position size calculator, and others, you’ve got a lot to learn. Let’s take a look at three very important tools that you should get to know, if you wish to gain an edge and to approach the markets like professionals do.   Risk of ruin calculator At the time of writing, financial markets are on edge due to central bank actions to control inflation, weakening growth, and rising geopolitical tensions. When trading in such conditions, risk management should be given special emphasis. On top of general rules like placing a stop loss and risking only a certain percentage of your account on every trade, traders should also consider the risk of ruin calculator. This tool, available for free on numerous websites, helps you calculate the probability of losing your funds completely, based on a few variables such as risk per trade, accuracy, and risk/reward ratio. - Advertisement - There is a mathematical formula that can give you an overall picture of whether your trading performance is consistent and if you are at risk of your wallet being emptied over time. Based on the risk of ruin metric, you can make necessary adjustments to your risk management strategy. In the long run, the math will work in your favor.   How Nigerians are using USDT to hedge funds against…     Your football calendar for the weekend     HOW TO DEAL WITH PROSTATE ENLARGEMENT OR CANCER NATURALLY…   Position size calculator Another useful tool, made available by most retail brokerages, is the position size calculator. Doing the math by hand can take a lot of time. This resource helps you figure out how much margin you need to commit, depending on the instrument, leverage level, and volume. Most of the time, this calculator is available and relevant for forex traders. Right now there is an increased focus on currencies such as the Turkish Lira and Russian Ruble. Traders are generally active in major pairs, which is why when they switch to exotics, the first step is to see how much capital is required to open a position. That figure is important in order to keep a balanced risk management approach in place. Economic calendar Since markets are heavily influenced by headlines related to inflation, GDP growth, industrial production, and unemployment, you should be constantly monitoring an economic calendar. This tool is automatically updated when an economic figure is released, enabling you to enter the market ahead of the rest. The early bird catches the worm, as they say. Just like the other two tools, the economic calendar is freely available on the web and on brokers’ websites. Feel free to choose the one that seems to be the most efficient for you. It is also useful to monitor multiple calendars simultaneously because forecasts might differ among them. SPONSORED