All the prospective corps members and other camp participants for the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Orientation Exercise will undergo compulsory COVID-19 RDT Test, the National Youth Service Corps has said. The agency said only those that test negative would be allowed entry into the camps nationwide. Director-General of the NYSC, Maj Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim disclosed this during a live joint webinar by NYSC/NCDC organised for the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Prospective Corps Members. In a statement by the Deputy Director of Press and Public Relations of the NYSC, Emeka Mgbemena, the DG disclosed that those that test positive to COVID-19 would be handed over to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and State Ministry of Health Officials for treatment. lbrahim revealed that the collaboration with NCDC has yielded good results, adding that since the partnership started, no casualty has been recorded in any of the NYSC’s Orientation Camps across the country. - Advertisement - The director-general lauded the Federal Government, Presidential Committee on COVID-19 and the NCDC for their support for the NYSC, especially in the conduct of hitch-free Orientation Camps since the outbreak of COVID-19 in the country. Ibrahim advised the PCMs to be security conscious, avoid night journeys, while also counselling them to break any journey that would extend beyond 6:00pm. “You can pass the night in any NYSC Orientation camp, NYSC Secretariats, Corps Members’ Lodge, military and security formations. “I urge you to take advantage of this opportunity because NYSC is a platform for those that are serious.   Court remands four men for allegedly burning…     Soldiers, police, DSS deployed as Osun APC holds guber…     Ogbomosho agog as Alao-Akala is laid to rest   “Posting and other services in NYSC are free, don’t give bribes for posting,” he said. The DG stated that call-up letters for the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Orientation Exercise would be ready on Sunday, February 20, 2022. In her submission, the NCDC/NYSC Project Lead for Safe Camp Reopening, Dr. Ladun Okunromade said adequate preparations had been put in place for the safe conduct of the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Orientation Exercise. She said different variants of COVID-19 are ravaging the world, while Nigeria has recorded over 1,300 cases of Lassa Fever with 46 deaths and 20 healthcare workers infected. Okunromade advised the prospective corps members and other camp participants to come to camp with facemasks, hand sanitisers; obey physical distancing, maintain personal hygiene and also adhere to all COVID-19 safety guidelines. The NCDC Director-General, Dr Ifedayo Adetifa in his address said: “there will be facilities for vaccination in the camp for those that will take either the first or second dose or third jabs and they can sight their vaccination cards.” He urged all camp participants to come to the Orientation camps with their vaccination cards. “This is the 7th edition of Safe Camp Re-opening Webinar. We will continue to work hard to facilitate the safe re-opening for all camp participants. “The virus is still with us and we must continue to take both personal and collective responsibility to ensure our safety,” stated. SPONSORED