A viral video of a young boy drinking a popular beer and citrus fruit drink from Nigerian Breweries – Star Radler – has set many tongues wagging. The now-viral video, which resurfaced on the internet, shows the moment of a little boy happily drinking a bottle of Star Radler in the presence of adults at a party. But checks by The Nation show the video had first surfaced in 2020. Many lambasted the mother of the kid for allowing such irresponsibility while some others argued that the drink was “non-alcoholic”. Reacting on its official Twitter handle @star_radler said: “Our attention has been drawn to a video of a child drinking Star Radler. We are disturbed by this video as it promotes the wrong values. #SayNoToUnderageDrinking. - Advertisement - “We strongly condemn this action, as it is clearly stated in all our communications that this product contains alcohol and is not for anyone under 18 years.   Seven Nigerian celebrities who lavished millions in one…     Oil belongs to Niger Delta, says Ekpo     2022 Race: Nigeria, Ghana clash fixed for Mar. 27   “We had reported the video on Twitter when it was posted two years ago and it was taken down. We have reported it again.” Chairman of NiDCOM, Abike Dabiri-Erewa in a terse response to the video said “very depressing” @Dear_dammy posited: “I don’t understand the argument that Star Radler is sweet and okay for children. Star Radler contains less alcohol (2% alc.) than regular beer, but it is still an alcoholic beverage and should never be served to children. “Alcohol in any quantity is not okay for children!” @Ayotubora argued: “Star Radler is basically fruit juice with only 0.4% alc. Y’all should chill” @Teeteelhorphe tweeted: “Why are we being deliberately wicked to our kids these days? Why?? What business does a minor have with alcohol, make-up, revealing clothes and the likes? Why are we robbing them of their precious childhood? This is really sad!” @SavvyRinu said: “Every day, I wonder where this country will take us. Child services suppose don carry this woman.” Attachments area