Former Imo State Governor Rochas Okorocha has sought President Muhammadu Buhari’s intervention in his current battle with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The EFCC had, on Monday, filed a 17-count charge against the Imo West senator and others over an alleged N2.9 billion fraud case at a Federal High Court in Abuja hours after he officially declared his interest in running for the office of the President in 2023. But the former governor, who said he was at the Presidential Villa in Abuja to formerly intimate President Buhari of his intent to contest Presidency in the next general election, added that he also informed the President of his travails with the EFCC. He insisted that the anti-graft agency was being used to harass him.   Glo Battle of the Year Nigeria to begin Saturday     Obasanjo to continue farm in Benue     Ousted directors ask for accounts   Addressing State House correspondents after his meeting with the President, Okorocha said there is an existing court order restraining the EFCC from prosecuting him, hence the need for President Buhari to caution the anti-graft agency against holding the court in contemp. - Advertisement - Okorocha explained that he had not requested President Buhari to stop him from being investigated but to get the EFCC to obey the law and have his international passport released to him. “I also used this opportunity to intimate Mr. President of what is going on between me and Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and the harassment and intimidation that I’m getting from the EFCC, literally on daily basis, and to inform him that I have court judgment and two court orders for different judgments at different forums, which stop the EFCC from harassing and intimidating me. EFCC have refused to obey the law. “So, I have to inform Mr. President that the EFCC should be made to obey the law that established it and without the law there wouldn’t be an EFCC. Also the desperation with which they go about any affair that concerning me, should stop. “And I reminded Mr. President that sometime ago, the EFCC had claimed that they recovered N5.9 billion from my account, which the court found out to be untrue. In other words, they were biased and they prejudged me. On that basis, the court ruled and ordered that they should not further interrogate and harass me. This has also not been obeyed.”