Jiji, an online marketplace and Nigeria’s largest marketplace for classifieds, said it recorded unprecedented growth in 2021, signposted by significant achievements for the brand such commanding over 10 million unique monthly visits, as well as over three million active listings. The e-commerce platform, which also holds leading positions across markets, and has become a classifieds leader in the region, is projected to be the largest e-commerce company in Africa based on the total value of merchandise sold through customer interactions and exchanges. Speaking with The Nation, over the weekend, Jiji’s Director of African Operations Yuliy Shenfeld, said on the strength of the brand’s unprecedented growth in 2021, which also included an increase in seller and buyer statistics while extending the Jiji business to acquire Cars45, it was committed to accelerate growth in 2022. Shenfeld reiterated that the platform would continue to be seller and buyer-friendly. “E-commerce has become a part of our lifestyle as a people and the services we offer at Jiji enhance this lifestyle by bringing convenience, variety and affordability to us. “At Jiji, we add value to lives and businesses to enable them to grow and thrive by creating a platform for smart and fast exchange of goods and services, with access to millions of buyers, thousands of sellers and wide product categories,” he said. - Advertisement - According to Shenfeld, Jiji’s recent acquisition of Cars45 was a testament to its intent to build a future beyond classifieds. He said the move was based on the statistics of vehicle listing as the second-most popular category on Jiji, second only to real estate. With the vehicle category worth over $3 billion, Jiji, he said, has become a recognized online platform for listing and selling cars in the Nigerian market. In this way, Jiji has expanded its market category to maintain its leading position in the Nigerian e-commerce space. Read Also: Naira hits four-month low as CBN decries unbearable currency abuse   Lagos mulls ethical bonds to fund infrastructure     We ‘ll improve revenue generation, says NPA     Fed Govt signs pact with eight solar developers for…   The Nation, however, learnt that sellers on the Jiji platform were not left out of the brand’s unprecedented growth in 2021. For instance, speaking on his experience in the past year, the Marketing Manager of Meshack Laptops, John Meshack, attested to the efficiency and transparency of dealings on the Jiji platform during the five years he sold on the platform. “Though we sell our products on other e-commerce sites like Konga and Jumia, transactions are better controlled with Jiji as we, the sellers, interact directly with potential buyers, which has made closing deals seamless for us. “Also, Jiji flags perceived fraudsters’ contacts through their Artificial Intelligence (AI)-driven security system, which has helped us immensely by significantly reducing our exposure to scam buyers,” Meshack was quoted as saying. He added that as a result of Jiji’s value addition to Meshack laptops, “we have subscribed to adverts for the whole of 2022 to help grow our business because Jiji has helped us boost sales and increased our Return on Investment (ROI) through exposure to millions of ready buyers on the platform” Another merchant, Bonec Medicals International Ltd, who has been selling on Jiji for over a year, was also said to have spoken on the positive impact Jiji has on his business. According to the company’s Managing Director, Jiji has added tremendous value to their business. “My experience with Jiji has been good as the platform attracts a lot of traffic for me, which translates to sales. I have built solid relationships with customers in Nigeria, and I grew significantly in 2021, leveraging the advert packages. “I explored two different packages last year and got a lot of exposure, even to clients outside of Nigeria. Jiji has had a positive impact on my business since I joined the platform,” he said. Encouraged by such positive reviews, Shenfeld said: “I and my team are committed to providing a customer-centric platform that is value-driven and quintessential in the Nigerian e-commerce space and internationally.”     SPONSORED