A group, Citizens Advocacy Centre (CAC), has urged President Muhamamadu Buhari to reinstate the suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police Abba Kyari to add bite to the fight against kidnapping and other forms of criminality across the country. The group argued that since no criminal case was established against Kyari, as was evident in the final letter from the office of the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, he has been cleared of all allegations. CAC further stressed: “The letter was very clear on the fact that all investigations done have cleared DCP Kyari of all criminal and corruption allegations”. Kyari was implicated by Abbas Ramon, popularly known as Hushpuppi, a Nigerian undergoing prosecution in USA for fraud. But the group maintained: “The letter from the Attorney General clearly said no dime was given to Kyari by Hushpuppi or anybody under prosecution in USA as celebrated during the media trial last year”. - Advertisement - According to CAC, with no evidence provided against an officer of high standing like Kyari, it leaves much to be desired to hear that Nigeria is in discussion with the US government over Kyari’s extradition.   Prince Charles contracts COVID-19 again     BREAKING: Reps vow to investigate toxic fuel importation     Troops eliminate 120 terrorists as 965 surrender in 3 weeks…   The group, in a statement signed by its Chairman, Barr Joseph Donald, explained that Malami, “never said Nigeria was already holding talks with its US counterpart to extradite Kyari”. Rather, it explained: “What the Honourable Minister said was, if there was any criminal case found in the investigations, it might warrant commencing a process of extradition. “He was clear on it. The Minister also knows that the process of extradition is cumbersome and difficult and not a straight jacket because there’s a court of law, which usually adjudicates to determine if there is a Criminal case committed and there are more than enough criminal evidence warranting extraditions or trial of the case here in Nigeria. “In this case, the first investigation resulted in nothing but cleared Kyari’s name. Yet, due to pressure from certain quarters, another investigation was instituted. “Second investigations also cleared Kyari on all criminal/Corruption grounds but it was clear from the first investigation and second investigations that, two key areas of infractions on police duties were mentioned against Kyari. One, the use of social media to defend himself without IGP permission and two, commencing the process of investigating a reported case without due process of getting an approved petition from the IGP. “These infractions were deemed disciplinary offences relating to internal police matters and not corruption or criminal offences. These infractions which are not criminal offences are always handled internally between the Police and Police Service Commission based on disciplinary laid down rules.”