The Coalition Against COVID-19 (CaCovid), a private-sector coalition, has put together N100 billion to support security agencies. Chairman, United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc, Mr. Tony Elumelu made this disclosure in Abuja at the biannual UBA Group Chairman’s Forum 2022. According to Elumelu, the fund shows how passionate and patriotic members of the coalition are to see Nigeria develop. “The N100 billion was gathered for the security agencies because we believe that if they are well-armed and protected it will go a long way in helping to assure security in Nigeria,” Elumelu said. He commended the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Mr. Godwin Emefiele for his determination to put together a coalition of private-sector players to address the challenges of COVID-19 in 2020. - Advertisement - He pointed out that members of the coalition meet every Monday for one hour to discuss very important issues about the development of Nigeria from health care to security and the national economy. The coalition, co-chaired by Emefiele and Aliko Dangote, had set up isolation centres across the country in all the states, spending not less than N60 billion on fighting the pandemic. The most important decision of the coalition, Elumelu added, was the decision “to open up the economy, the economy will crash if we don’t do so, and there was so much pressure on the government”.   IMF links cash shortage to central bank digital currency     ASUU keeps students, govt in suspense     Senators, Reps protest proposed exclusion from APC…   “We spent so much money to get people to vaccinate; even supporting government agencies with money to enable them to do so many things to keep Nigeria healthy and safe,” he said. Emefiele said efforts by the apex bank and other banks to support agriculture and manufacturing have resulted in “credit to the manufacturing sector growing from 10 per cent in 2014 to 16 per cent in 2021.” “In the agriculture sector, credit has grown from three per cent in 2013 to six per cent in 2022,” he said. According to him, the CBN has “revamped the management of the Nigerian Commodities Exchange (NCX), and repositioned the NCX to enable farmers to enter into long term contracts with agro-processors and exporters”. According to him, this measure would ultimately increase the flow of funds to support the expansion of agriculture and agro-processing activities in the country, which will create jobs and wealth for the people. He expressed optimism “that over the next two years credit to the agricultural sector would rise to over 10 per cent”. Emefiele said: “A lot of work still needs to be done to unlock growth in these critical sectors of our economy.” He appealed to the management of UBA “to build on the gains recorded by providing access to credit and supporting small businesses in these critical areas with funding and technical assistance”. “Given the extent of your branch networks across Nigeria and indeed in Africa, I believe that you can leverage on your knowledge of the local economy to lend to households and businesses as well as provide tailored products and services that meet the needs of your customers in these critical sectors. By providing support to them you are also enabling communities to thrive,” Emefiele said. SPONSORED