In the 90s, there would be no party, popular music show or radio and television programme that the songs of pop musician, songwriter and producer, Alex Okoroigwe aka Alex O would not be played or his music video watched. Handsome, charming with jerry curls to match, Okoroigwe ranked among the greats of his time like Blackky, Mandators, Daniel Wilson, Esse Agesse, and Mike Okri until he suddenly went out of circulation and spent so many years outside the shores of Nigeria. With five successful albums, Okoroigwe returned a few years ago to add film/animation to his resume. In this interview with SAM ANOKAM, Alex O speaks about his new passion, why he traveled out and his new project.  For a long time now, we haven’t heard anything from you, what has been happening to you? Besides my own music, I work on and produce other people’s music. I have jobs that I do like film production. I studied film and animation production before returning to Nigeria. It is not only music that I do, I actually have two studios – one is for music recording and the other one is for film, editing, visual effect, colour among others. Whenever I have ideas I write them. I just finished a music video for Baron D. His sponsors, Powersonic music in Germany wanted me to produce the music video for his new song which would be released soon. I have accumulated close to 200 songs that I have not released. I am one of those people who are lucky with the gift of putting music together. Of course, besides the talents, I took time to learn how to do it. I remember my experiences with the late uncle Steve Rhodes and Lemmy Jackson. I have an idea of how to put music together. If I decide to create a new song, it does not take me up to two hours to address something new. Close to 200 songs and no plans to release them? - Advertisement - I have plans to release them. I have come up with an idea of setting up a label which I am going to push forward very soon. When that happens, the songs accumulated would be very useful. If an artiste comes along, you now push it to the extent that it would match with the image and style of the artistes. If a creative artist comes along, I would just help to arrange and produce. I also think there are a lot of budding artists who are very talented. I think of how I came through from help from different quarters. I also want to give back in whatever ways I think is possible. An artist who is looking for a way to put his work out there and see whether he will be accepted, is always the most difficult part of being a musician. So for somebody to stretch a hand to help is something. For example Baron D that I mentioned; when I was contacted, I looked at it and said let me see what I can do. I not only produced his video but I also assisted in putting the song, the video on television, radio, cable channels and they liked what I did selflessly. I cannot forget the love I got from the late uncle Steve Rhodes and the family. I still owe him. I got through  to Lemmy Jackson and after him, I met my late manager, Ikem Okolue , he was the sound engineer for Sony music , then it was CBS. That was the guy that unlocked my entire career. After my time with uncle Steve Rhodes , I met Lemmy Jackson who signed me on his label but he wasn’t ready for the release of the songs so we started working together in the studios. Most of all those artists like The Mandators, Julie Pip, late Princess Bunmi Olajubu, Funmi Adams, late Best Agoha, The Marshall etc I was part of the production of all those hit songs. When you go through the back of the album sleeves you will see my name. Those things also gave me the opportunity to be able to learn basic production in the studio. At that time, I will arrange for artists to go to Japex studios before Lemmy Jackson would come and do overdubs and mix. At some point, I decided to produce a demonstration tape which nobody will reject. I went to Japex studio in Anthony village. Every musician that was popular in the 90s and early 2000s must know Japaz studios. My friend, the owner of Jato FM, was the sound engineer before he travelled to the United States. I started recording and a sound engineer from CBS walked in to see Jato. He heard what I was doing and liked it. The next day this same person who happens to be the MD of CBS came to Lemmy Jackson’s office to look for me. I told them I was signed onto Lemmy Jackson and they asked me to call Lemmy Jackson to see how to work on the situation. Jackson came and for a whole lot of reasons they didn’t agree. Jackson now said that there is a gap here and he now  went to Polygram with the same material and the rest as they say is history. These songs you intend to release this year, is it going to be the same Alex O kind of vibes or are you doing a new thing like what is happening with the new beats? What should be constant in people’s eyes is change, because time changes, it changes everything. If you remain the same, you are not going to go anywhere. What will not change is my voice. I can tell you that I have improved over the years. I sound a lot better now after my years overseas singing and playing with Americans all over the world. A lot of experiences I have acquired. You are going to hear a new version of my voice. The song’s style is going to be improved, a lot more mature and interesting and then, the video also will be different. There will be a whole lot of creative work and don’t forget that I am also now in the film area as well. It is not going to be the same. Everybody who is into music in Nigeria must realise that at this moment, Nigerians are not listening to slow songs. Nigerians want to dance. So if you are playing music that cannot be mixed by the DJ into what they are playing and what the people are dancing to, you are being left out. You must think of the sort of rhythm people want to dance to. If you know the process of putting music together you should be able to know how to create a dance song that would attract people’s attention. The music should even trend on its own. Why did you leave Nigeria at the peak of your career?   51 monarchs receive Staff of office in Imo     Actors, directors, producers speak on Nollywood’s…     APC chair: Al-Makura, Akume, Mustapha, Bwari in hot race for…   There are a lot of reasons. During that time the industry was going through a challenging phase. The piracy thing got into it and it was a very big problem. During that time, Nigeria really didn’t have this middle class that had extra money to spend to go and have a good time. You can count on the fingers on your hand how many people were multi-millionaires. Sometimes when you put up a show, people have to sacrifice certain other things and financial things are getting more and more difficult. And so, I finished a whole album , recorded by myself,  took it to a recording company and they told me they don’t have the resources to print and do other things. Some artists too were printing and marketing their own music themselves. I just thought that I shouldn’t wait before the country goes down. I needed to travel, see how things are done, learn more and upgrade myself. And that was it. I wasn’t the only one who left. I had the intention of going briefly and returning but when you go there, one thing leads to another. Alex Zitto traveled, as did Ras Kimono, Mike Okri, Evi Edna Ogholi. Majek Fashek started before us. At the end of the day, the fact that I travelled and did all that I did outside, I have been able to come back to continue what I was doing and even produce for other artists and now I am into film. I have come back to reposition myself. Some people didn’t have that opportunity. It is not always that if you don’t own a big house or ride a Rolls Royce here, Massarati there that you are not successful in life. Would you advise those abroad to return home? It depends on what each person is doing. If somebody has a good job that is paying them a lot of money, it is an individual decision to make. In my case, I have always wanted to come home. Despite what we are going through , the people in charge are not doing a good job, if anybody wants to help this country, let the leadership start doing what they want to do. Security in particular is a major problem. These things are possible. I have traveled, been out there, seen how things are done, read the stories and histories of these countries and how they were able to achieve and we can achieve these things, making Nigeria a world power. Countries like Singapore for instance; a man and two or three of his friends decided to take a decision, build them. Some people accused some of them as dictators, but they did what they wanted to do and they did it. The same party that started this revolution is the same party that is ruling till today. That means whatever they are doing is working. When you go to Singapore you will see that there are possibilities and Nigeria had more than Singapore had when they started out, when they were driven out of Malaysia. We all cannot be leaders and if you have to do what you have to do to help the citizens of the country you have to do it. Let’s talk about your film side, have you done any movie production? Yes, for quite a while, all I have been doing is post production work for most of the producers in Nollywood, visual effects et al. It is a lot easier for me to manipulate things like car crashes, helicopter crashes, bombs and all those difficult scenes that you normally cannot shoot. Last year, I and one of my sisters decided to go into a movie production. It took quite a while. We are still in the process of wrapping it up .  But there are lots of challenges besides the initial challenge of funding, you have some of the industry practitioners like cameramen, directors, audio capturing people, light people, everybody has to work together. I just found out that a lot of people are not serious minded. It has to be well done. The other major challenge is that the content buyers want you to produce a good movie, use popular faces but when they want to pay they don’t pay as much as the amount of money required for the movie. It is frustrating that a lot of people are not bothered anymore to make movies because you have to get funding. You are a ladies man, how do you cope with the women folks? You make friends everyday. People come into your life and leave whatever impact or experiences you are taking away from them. I just think that things happen, you need people, it depends on how far one wants to go. At a certain age, you want to place more attention on more important things. I am more interested in my music and movies. I have a whole lot to do. Are you happy with what is happening in the entertainment industry? These guys have done a great job putting Nigerian music out there in the world. These guys are lucky to be happening when attention is towards what is coming from Africa right now. Before, it was more Latin and America. Then the likes of Shaggy and the Jamaican influence were running the show in America. Now they are paying attention to what is coming out from Africa. Wizkid went to O2 Arena and filled it up for three days. That is amazing. I am thinking maybe God is helping to push these things because sometimes some of the things these guys are doing are things you don’t expect but they were able to do at this time. I think it is God’s blessings towards the people of this country. See wizkid, Burnaboy, Davido and then the Nigerians outside are actually the ones pulling it bringing all their Onyibo friends and their families to pay attention to what Nigerians are doing. The way it is, it will continue to grow from strength to strength. You can use Youtube now to project yourself to the world. When Psy, that guy from South Korea won the MTV video of the year from South Korea using Youtube that is when I knew that the world had opened up. Anything that you want to do, just focus on it, do it well. Be as unique as possible and attention would come towards you. It can only get better. Nigeria will rule the world in music and entertainment. Do you have any plans to collaborate with these young guys? I would like to but time has to come for it. The choice is also very important and I hear that if you pick the wrong person they will mess up your project. To even have them come close to appear in your video becomes a problem. One has to make sure it is at the right time and with the right people and ask God to bless it. If they want me to feature, I will also look at it and the possibilities and modalities as well.