The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)-led Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP) was created to increase banks’ financing to the agricultural sector and create economic linkage between smallholder farmers and reputable large-scale rice processors. Private sector investments in rice farming has also created opportunity for consumers to get the best output from the market, writes COLLINS NWEZE Samuel Oyetunde, a cashier at a new generation bank, paid his mother a routine visit. Upon his arrival, he was served his favourite meal of rice, native stew and chicken. Samuel spooned the food,   and the taste exploded on his tongue. As he closed his eyes to savour the delicacy, the unbelievable happened. His teeth crushed some stones and sand hidden in the rice. Samuel was filled with disbelief and sadness. Unfortunately, many of consumers can identify with Oyetunde’s plight. Subconsciously, consumers make themselves vulnerable by patronising loose rice sold in open basins in neighbourhood stores and open markets. The danger is that the loose and unpackaged rice sold to consumers in basins are exposed to stones, rodents, insects and importantly easily contaminated by other food items as well as unfavourable sanitary conditions. - Advertisement - Moses Abiodun, a farmer, who has benefited from the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN’s) Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP) funding for rice farming in various states, said the solution to this was to buy packaged rice. He said over N620 billion had been released for the ABP in over six years of implementation with consumers demanding packaged rice.   FirstBank hosts First@arts initiative     Foundation announces seed fund for students     KPMG: Stanbic IBTC leads in retail, SMEs banking   Packaged rice, Abiodun said, had undergone cleaning processes like sortexing and processed in the best hygienic condition that eliminates  human handling and exposure to contamination. “Loose rice exposes consumers to cross contaminated rice which can happen through the transfer of bacteria or other microorganisms from other substances to rice. There are three main types of cross contamination: food-to-food, equipment-to-food, and people-to-food. “For instance, putting contaminated foods and non-contaminated foods under the same roof can result in food-to-food cross contamination. This allows harmful bacteria and fungi to spread and populate. Secondly, it is a known fact that bacteria can survive for long periods on surfaces like storage container and basins, when they are not washed properly or unknowingly contaminated with bacteria resulting in equipment to food contamination,” Abiodun explained. Furthermore, Adigun said people could easily transfer harmful bacteria from their bodies or clothes to loose and exposed rice in basins. For example, a person may cough into their hand or touch other food items in the store and continue to sell loose rice without washing their hands in between. This also occurs when several consumers sample the rice by handling it before purchase. “Cross contamination can have serious consequences as it can compromise consumer health and safety. Proper food safety practices like rice packaging can significantly reduce risk of cross contamination,” he stated. Another farmer and Managing Director, CountryMade Farms Limited, Timothy Nnodim, said some rice manufacturers  complied with the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control’s (NAFDAC’s) regulations and international food safety standards to protect the integrity of their brands and ensure quality and wholesome rice, but some rice traders in the open market continue to undermine these efforts with loose rice. He said: “What then is the way forward? The answer lies in making informed decisions to purchase only quality, packaged and hygienic rice like Big Bull rice. Big Bull Rice is an indigenous, premium quality parboiled rice. It is sortex-cleaned, stone-free and has a high-swelling index. It is produced in a state of the art automated rice milling factory, which has eliminated handling to the barest minimum hence giving you rice produced in the highest hygienic condition. “With Big Bull Rice, you are assured of good quality, safety and the great taste of homegrown ingenuity. It is  available in open markets, neighbourhood stores, supermart, Modern Trade, among others. in varying SKUs (50kg, 25kg, 10kg, 5kg, 2.25kg and 750g) to fit consumers’ preference.”