FAMOUS Nigerian stand-up comedian, Bright ‘Basketmouth’ Okpocha is best known for his surreal humour and levity. The funnyman who initially attempted a career as a rapper in the 90s spoke on how he stumbled across comedy but he is ready to retrace his steps back to his first love – music. OLAITAN GANIU writes. His struggle as an underground rapper As a young man, Basketmouth was blind to his comic talent. His childhood dream was to become a celebrated rapper. After school hours, he would pick pen and paper to write his rap lyrics before heading home. “When I was growing up, I thought everyone was funny. I never knew that being funny was a talent,” he said of his childhood. In church, he was well-known as a drummer boy but among his peers in school, he is a fearsome rhymester. “I’m one of the people that God just blessed with different talents. I used to play the drum set, keyboard, and other musical instruments. Anywhere you put me, I’ll blend in. I might, possibly, not be the best but at least relatively good. But then, rapping was just wanted to do.” Though his parent hails from Abia State, Basketmouth was born and raised in the Ajegunle-Apapa area of Lagos State, Nigeria. He compares the parental care of now and then saying, “Back then, our parents that trained us didn’t have the internet, no social media and no any distractions. So they have time to cater for us (children).” He continues, “I remember, it was my mother that used to do my homework with me. She gets the time because life was so easy. But today’s parents are more interested in Instagram, Tiktok, and other things that add no value to life. Many of them (parents) left their kids to feed on the internet. So, it is obvious that we’ve lost our original self.” Da Psychophats and other groups He went on to form a seven-member rap band named, ‘Da Psychophats’ in 1995. When the band failed to make headway, Basketmouth convened another group known as ‘Da Oddz’. The musical band comprises his brother, Godwin and a pal, Muyiwa Ola-Phillips. The group was later dissolved when Basketmouth gained admission into the University of Benin (UNIBEN) to study for a degree course. Whilst at the University, he never ceases to source for gigs – on and off the campus – where he could display his rap artistry. Identifying Lagos as Nigeria’s music hub, he will jump bus from Edo State to the Centre of Excellence in search of entertainment shows. “Most time, especially weekends, from UNIBEN, I’ll travel down to Lagos in search for gigs where I could showcase my rap skills, not minding if organisers will pay me or not.” Comedy chose me In 1999, Basketmouth realized that comedy is what he was born to do when he met with the defunct RnB band, Plantashun Boiz as he was hired as their hype-man. Basketmouth would open concerts with his fictitious tales and jokes to increase the audience’s excitement. One day, while on stage, he was invited for a campus tour, ‘Play It Safe Tour’ alongside Julius Agwu. The tour covered more than 30 higher institutions in Nigeria.   Glo Battle of the Year Nigeria: Episode four on this weekend     BIGVAI JOKOTOYE: I don’t see myself as special     Portable blasts trolls over social media posts   “I would say, I didn’t choose to be a comedian, comedy chose me,” he paused before adding: “I stepped into the limelight when I took the mic to introduce Plantashun Boiz on stage at the University of Lagos. While on stage, the organisers requested for my contact, and that was it.” The big break At a time when Nigeria’s Comedy Industry had a diverse list of professional stand-up comedians, Basketmouth stepped into the limelight after a veteran humorist, Ali Baba introduced him to a comedy merchant, Opa Williams in 2000. Opa Williams later features him on his popular comedy show, ‘Night Of A Thousand Laughs’. But, how did Basketmouth distinguish his comedy from top comic acts such as Basorge, TeeA, Okey Bakassi, Klint De Drunks and others? He says: “I came in to fill the gap that is missing in Nigeria’s comedy scene. I did the opposite of what other comedians have been doing by creating my trademark – I wore dreadlocks and change my dressing – wearing baggy jeans with a white t-shirt and whenever I perform I try to be natural on stage. I try as much to stay unique because I don’t want to sound like any other comedians.” In 2005 and 2006, Basketmouth won the National Comedy Award and the awards for Best Stand-up Comedian of the Year respectively. Since then, the 43-year-old comedian has continued to captivate his fans both home and abroad. He received worldwide exposure with his variety of comedic concerts ‘Laff n Jamz’, ‘Basketmouth Uncensored’, ‘Lords of the Ribs’, ‘Africa’s Kings of Comedy’ to mention a few. He has gone on to collaborate with many superstars, locally and internationally including Wizkid, Davido, Jay Z, Beyoncé, Snoop Dogg, Chris Brown, Akon, and many others. Basketmouth has also worked with internationally acclaimed comedians like Red Grant, Melanie Camacho, Jeff Ross, Hanibal Buress, Aires Spears, Deray Davis, Tony Roberts, Robert Powell, and Trevor Noah amongst others. He recently staged a comedic event, ‘The Voice in my Head’ at Indigo2, London. The show was sponsored by Guaranty Trust Holding Company Plc (GTCO). Return to first love With a career spanning over 24 years as a comedian, Basketmouth has found his way back to his first love – music. Between 2020 and 2022, he has released two classic musical projects. The debut album was entitled,  ‘Yabasi,’ which is a soundtrack to his TV series, ‘Papa Benji’. The newest is a 9-track body of work titled ‘Horoscopes’. Produced by a talented beatmaker, Duktor Sett, the album features megastars including 2face, Wande Coal, MI, Johnny Drille, Simi, The Cavemen, Illbliss, Falz, Reekado Banks, Magnito, and others. “Music gives me a different kind of feeling. You know, I started with music but I took a pause, and now I’m back on it. Music does not affect some other things that I’m doing because they all complement each other,” he said.