HISTORY has an uncanny way of repeating itself hence the need to warn the Nigeria Football Federation to watch their backs while preparing for the ‘wars’ between two brothers waiting to be part of history. March 25 and March 29 dates would further heighten the rivalry between Nigeria and Ghana. The bitter rivalry between both countries only on the football pitch is such that every minute in the game matters. I make bold to state here that the winner of the games should do their homework very well lest the loser snatches the ticket at the boardroom. Did I hear anyone reading this column hiss or sigh? Is anyone saying it hasn’t happened before for matches to be decided against Nigeria at the board room? Hold your breath. As they say, all is fair in warfare. So NFF beware of the ides of March. Had Nigeria not qualified for the Russia 2018 World Cup with a game to spare, the drawn game against Algeria in Constantine would have seen the North Africans qualify ahead of Nigeria if that last game was the decider. Super Eagles right-wing back Shehu Abdullahi had been shown the mandatory two yellow cards, which meant he ought to have missed the dead rubber game against Algeria. Guess what, nobody knew this fact before the game. Not even Abdullahi as he was invited for the game. The coaches and the backroom staff were literally snoring to be bothered about such details. The team’s technical crew ought to have someone documenting such details and another person to reconfirm with the NFF if they received any notification(s) from FIFA and/or CAF on eligible and/or ineligible players before every game. Former Super Eagles Head Coach, Gernot Rohr didn’t know. He didn’t crosscheck with the federation’s technical committee members because he didn’t believe in them. The federation too didn’t ask the team’s backroom staff about players’ status based on incidents that had happened on the field of play during matches. Danger loomed but we didn’t see it. Many Nigerians celebrated the 1-1 draw against Algeria in Constantine, with a few others happy the country qualified for the Mundial unbeaten. The Algerians had other ideas though they had been eliminated from the Russia 2018 race, they pressed for the three points at the boardroom as if such boardroom victories would lift them over Nigeria, which had qualified for the Mundial, win or lose the last game. Nigeria lost the three points and conceded three goals from that game. Unsurprisingly, nobody was punished. We characteristically swept the matter under the table since the decision didn’t translate to Nigeria losing the group’s qualification ticket. We are on the verge of securing another World Cup qualification ticket to Qatar this year. We, therefore, need to dust up the records of our players participating in our matches to know those who are qualified to play the first leg tie at the Cape Coast Stadium in Ghana without any baggage capable of ruining our chances of qualifying for the Mundial.  If it means crosschecking our records with what FIFA and CAF have in their books, we should send an email and double-check. Only eligible players should play both ties. The games would count till the death with the losers looking for any loophole to undo the winners. The import of this writer’s fear finds expression with how Nigeria failed to qualify for the 2012 Africa Cup of Nations competitions with Samson Siasia as coach of the Super Eagles. Nigeria needed a win to qualify ahead of Guinea. It didn’t matter the number of goals. The Guineans needed a draw at the worst instance. Victory would have been a bonanza. Match-day, Nigeria was leading 2-1 until the closing stages of the game when the conflicting interpretation of the rules by everyone connected with football destroyed our dreams of another AFCON appearance. Rather than control the game and hold on to the prevailing 2-1 result, our players pushed forward to score more goals based on what they were being told from the sideline. Disaster struck. A counter-attack found Guinea’s top scorer Abubakar ‘Titi’ Camara who waltzed past our retreating defenders, dribbling our goalkeeper in the process to score the equaliser. There was pin-drop silence inside the National Stadium in Abuja with the players sprawling on the turf while others wept uncontrollably. We missed out on that year’s Africa Cup of Nations because we didn’t study the rule book to know what it entailed then. Did I hear ask if the bag of mistakes is empty? How can? With our football federation, it is a case of one competition several problems. You would have thought that a three-time winner of the Africa Cup of Nations would easily know how to register the country’s representatives at CAF. Not so here. We like passing the buck. Rather than have the federation’s technical committee members sit with the foreign coach mostly, to discuss the list of players for the continental series, we allowed the coach to do the registration. In fact, Rohr informed Nigerians about the number of players he registered which he put at 40. It was done singlehandedly, with the backlash leading to Nigeria’s inability to parade Watford FC of England’s striker Emmanuel Dennis at the Cameroon 2021 Africa Cup of Nations.   Oyetola, his horse and camel     Why I want to be Taraba governor – Namdas     UNDER FIRE: Roman Lukaku struggles at Stamford Bridge   If the federation had mandated Rohr to discuss his 40-man squad with its technical committee members, questions would have been asked about Ademola Lookman’s eligibility. In fact, the members would have asked for his FIFA letter clearing him to play for Nigeria, as we have now. Rohr would have been asked how he could pick 40 players without including Dennis’ name, given what he did weekly for the now relegation-bound Premier League club. Need I waste space narrating what transpired since this week’s column is meant to remind the federation chieftains to learn from their past mistakes? This writer is excited over the attempts made by the federation to introduce the technical crew to the players. They must have discussed other logistic details which ensure that the players are adequately motivated and paid their entitlements promptly, not what happened at the Cameroon 2021 Africa Cup of Nations. It is sickening to reveal here that the players, coaches, and officials were paid their entitlements, several days after Nigeria was eliminated from the competition. It is important that the technical committee sits in concert with the Eagles coach to critically evaluate the players selected for the Black Stars’ tie. We should always qualify for the World Cup given the exploits of our players in their European clubs. Playing at the Mundial should be Nigeria’s birthright, no stories. Is the federation jinxed? Otherwise, how does anyone explain the shameful treatment handed the Super Falcons at the Nnamdi Azikiwe airport in Abuja on Thursday morning? Nigeria’s women’s soccer side returned to the country in the wee hours of Thursday only to be held down by immigration people over Covid-19 protocols. According to accounts of some of the players who recorded the ugly scenes, they spent over five hours, having arrived in the country at 12 mid-night. The team’s chief coach, Randy Waldrum, expressed frustration at the situation in a video clip produced and made available by team media officer Oluchi Tobechukwu. “It is very frustrating. We had a two-hour flight from Cote D’Ivoire but we have already been in this room (at the airport) for more than two and half hours. “It is very frustrating to come back home and see the players have to go through this. We have already taken this test multiple times to play the game. So, I don’t understand,” Waldrum had lamented. The questions to ask are: Didn’t the players and officials pass through these immigration people on their way out of the country? Didn’t the immigration people see that the girls wear Nigeria’s colours and had balls and soccer boots to show that they were our football heroines or should I say, ambassadors? Would the immigration people have treated the Super Eagles so shabbily? This incident which is viral already mustn’t be treated with kid gloves. We are expecting the Ghanaians in Abuja for the March 29 World Cup qualifier. They mustn’t face this kind of embarrassment.