Youths have been enjoined to take advantage of the ongoing voter registration exercise so that they can be able to participate actively in the next general elections. This was contained in the remarks made by the Chairperson, Royal African Society, a United Kingdom-based organisation, Arunma Oteh during the launching of an advocacy campaign to sensitise Nigerian youths to participate in the electoral process leading to the next general elections. Anap Foundation kick-started the enlightenment campaign themed, GoNigeria, in partnership with the Independent National Electoral Commission [INEC] and other advocates, celebrity ambassadors, corporate bodies, as well as volunteers to educate the youths to understand that their votes count in having the right leaders at the helm of affairs.   Lawyer to Ayu: Make PDP a strong opposition     Youths drum support for presidential aspirant     Uzodimma challenges APC leaders on Ngor-Okpala by-election   A statement from Anap Foundation said Oteh, a Nigerian scholar at the University of Oxford described voting as a civic duty to ensure that the right calibre of leaders are elected to serve the country. She said: “Vote, vote, vote! It is your civic duty. It is your right. If you don’t vote, you are giving up your power to help unleash Nigeria’s great future. Your vote counts but will surely not count if you don’t vote.” Other advocates of the campaign are activist Aisha Yesufu; Director, Research and Training, the Da’wah Institute, Islamic Education Trust, Nuruddeen Lemu; poet, Dike Chukwumerije; musician, actor, and entertainer, Folarin Falana (Falz); founder of Stanbic IBTC Bank and president/founder, Anap Foundation Atedo Peterside; and Catholic Church, Catholic Bishop of Sokoto, Matthew Kukah. Others are the founder, Connected Development (CODE), Hamzat Lawal; the National Chairman, Youth Party, Tomiwa Aladekomo; former Minister of Aviation and founder UnlockNaija, Osita Chidoka; and pastor and medical practitioner, Dr. Tony Rapu. The initiative is also supported by the Executive Director, EiE Nigeria, Yemi Adamolekun; former minister and professor of Public Health Leadership at Harvard, Muhammad Ali Pate; the 14th Emir of Kano and the Grand Khalifa of Tijjaniya Order, Muhammad Sanusi II; former minister, Dr. Salamatu Hussaini Suleiman; chairman, Tertiary Education Trust Fund [TETFUND] and president, King’s College Old Boys Association, Kashim Ibrahim-Imam; author, Ayisha Osori; and former  Group Executive Director at the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Ibrahim Dahiru Waziri.