Former Governor of Enugu State and the Senator representing Enugu East Senatorial District in the National Assembly,  Chimaroke Nnamani, his Enugu North Senatorial District counterpart, Chukwuma Utazi, members of House of Representatives from the state, the state lawmakers,   17 local government council chairmen  and other stakeholders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Enugu State, on yesterday, reaffirmed their endorsement of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi as the de facto leader of the party  in particular and the Southeast geo-political zone in general. The Enugu PDP stakeholders, who spoke during the flag off of the 2022 Local Government elections campaign, held at Ikem, Isi-Uzo Local Government  headquarters, declared that  Ugwuanyi remains their leader while they are his followers. They praised the governor  for the manner he has been managing the affairs of the state, stressing that it is unprecedented. The stakeholders also appreciated the governor for entrenching enduring peace and good governance in Enugu State as well as his consistency in conducting local government elections since in the inception of his administration. Speaking at the rally, Senator Nnamani, who stated that “politics is a serious business” described  Ugwuanyi as “a master of political leaverages and the leader of the PDP in the Southeast.” - Advertisement - Senator Nnamani ,who was flanked by Senator Utazi and Senator Ben Collins Ndu, said that the forthcoming Local Government election  is a rehearsal to the 2023 general elections, stressing: “It is a serious business and that is why I am here”. The former Governor reiterated their loyalty to  Ugwuanyi and his decisions in respect of the 2023 general elections, saying: “What  Ugwuanyi wants us to do in 2023, we will do it. The governor is our party leader, we are his followers”.   Fayemi, a true progressive, innovative leader, say APC…     Conveners clarify meeting of eminent Nigerians     Edo business tycoon, cleric clash over threats to life,…   Speaking on behalf of the members of the House of Representatives from Enugu State, the member representing Enugu East/Isi-Uzo Federal Constituency, Hon. Cornelius Nnaji, described Ugwuanyi as peace loving Governor, pointing out that the mammoth crowd at the rally was a testament to overwhelming popularity of the PDP in Enugu State and the acceptability of  Ugwuanyi as the leader of the party. Nnaji, who spoke alongside Representatives  Ofor Chukwuegbo,  Dr. Pat Asadu,  Princess Peace Nnaji,  Dr. Kingsley Ebenyi,  H K.G.B. Oguakwa,  U.S.A. Igwesi and  Chijioke Edeoga,  maintained that “it is well established that we have one Governor of Enugu State and one leader in the person of His Excellency Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi”. The federal lawmaker who applauded  Ugwuanyi for keeping faith with his peace initiative and the promise he made in his inaugural address to develop the rural areas where the majority of the people reside. “Let’s all continue to support our governor and his peace initiative which is expensive to maintain. He is a calm and humble leader”, he said. Handing over the party flags to the 17 LG Chairmanship candidates of the PDP after prayers were offered to them by the Spiritual Director of Okunerere Adoration Ministry, Rev. Fr. Dr. Paul Obayi, Ugwuanyi thanked the leadership of the party at all levels and all the stakeholders for providing the leadership that facilitated the success of the primary elections. The governor said that “the politicking was intriguing, the sound was loud, the suspense was thrilling and the tension was palpable yet the processes were consultative, conclusive and consensual”. He added that the all the aspirants have joined hands to build a stronger and more formidable PDP that is ready and prepared to go to the polls. Ugwuanyi assured the people  that their candidates, if elected shall serve them with the fear of God and in their best interest, consistent with the PDP tradition, and urged them to vote massively for PDP on February 23.