Tech start-ups yesterday decried the spate of harassment by law enforcement agencies, especially policemen and officials of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). According to the United States (US), Nigerian startups last year raised the most cash in tech funding in Africa. While African startups raised about $2.9 billion, Nigerian companies raised $1.7 billion, about 60 per cent of the total funding. Speaking yesterday at a forum tagged: Breakfast interactive session with Nigeria’s digital innovation ecosystem organised by the Federal Ministry of Communication and Digital Economy, the tech startups took turns to reel out the catalogue of woes they have had to contend with operating in the country. From over regulation to double taxation and a general asphyxiating operating business environment, the tech start-ups urged the Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Prof Isa Pantami to make the space more friendly. One of them, Simeon Ononobi, founder of ThankU Cash, lamented that funding wasn’t coming from within the country. - Advertisement - He said any time the anti-crime agencies read in the papers that any startup was closing deals running into millions of US dollars, they get worried, asking what percentage of the cash raised would come to government  by way of tax.   Oil hits $97 on Russia-Ukraine war game     Govt mulls nuclear energy to bridge power deficit     Akande on governance   Ononobi said the business operating environment remained very hostile, arguing that the ecosystem has continued to weather the storm. Responding, Pantami agreed with the startup that the business operating environment, promising that more was being done through the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) headed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to ensure that the hostility reduced. He said most of the people making the environment to be hostile are not governors, ministers or public office holders. He called for the review of what he called social skill. He said he had had occasions to call the Minister of Police Affairs, EFCC chairman, and even the Inspector-General of Police over incessant harassments of tech startups. The minister said there was so much emphasis on certificates, which ordinarily should have validated knowledge but which is not in the Nigerian context. He stressed the need for skills acquisition rather than certificate acquisition that will neither give the (certificate) holder jobs or create jobs. Pantami lauded the startups for their resilience in the face of the odds, creating jobs across the ecosystem and addressing social problems. Speaking at the Nigeria Tech Summit in Abuja last year, the U.S. Ambassador to Nigeria, Mary Beth Leonard, had said:  “Africa-based tech startups have raised more than $2.9 billion. Nigerian startups, which are creating new products, services, and platforms, raised $1.7 billion of this total or about 60% of it. Africa boasts a total of seven tech ‘unicorns’, or companies valued at over $1 billion. “I find it very exciting to note that three of these companies – OPay, Flutterwave, and Interswitch – are born and bred of Nigerian talent. We firmly believe that Nigeria, with the proper support, has enormous potential to do even more.”