Tinubu Vanguard, a support group for the actualization of 2023 presidential ambition of the National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has called for all-round support. The group said Tinubu deserves to be president as payback for his dedication to democracy. Chairman, Board of Trustees, Tinubu Vanguard, Malam Nasiru Daura, said this in Abuja, at the group’s national conference tagged: “Payback Time for Asiwaju ”. Daura described Tinubu as a man that is very active in the struggle for democracy. He urged Nigerians to reciprocate the gesture by supporting his ambition. “The reason for this event is to express our love and support for Tinubu, a man who struggled and fought for democracy at a time when others were organizing matches in support of military regimes. Today, we are all enjoying the freedom that is associated with democracy. Tinubu, therefore, deserves a payback by way of support with our votes and our prayers, ” he said.   Voter apathy, violence mar bye-elections in Imo, Ondo,…     Dummy lawmakers of the South-South     IGP appoints Bala Senchi acting DIG, redeploys three AIGs   Director-General of Tinubu Vanguard, Dr. Benjamin Johnny, described Tinubu as a consummate democrat who joined forces with other progressive Nigerians to bring about democratic the present dispensation. Johnny said: “Tinubu has done a lot for Nigeria and Nigerians, irrespective of tribe and religion”. He described Tinubu Vanguard as a collection of progressive minded Nigerians who believe in the character and person of Tinubu. He said that Tinubu was in the best position to consolidate on the foundation and legacy of President Muhammadu Buhari. “The present leadership under President Muhammadu Buhari is laying the foundation for a new Nigeria with various projects in infrastructure and human capital development. Tinubu played a major role in the electoral success of Buhari and he has consistently demonstrated support to the government.  He is, therefore, best positioned to continue his legacies,” he said.