Filmmaker Kemi Adetiba has taken to her verified Instagram handle to announce her engagement to Oscar Heman-Ackah. Popular for her latest blockbuster movie ‘King of Boys’, Adetiba noted that the engagement took place in Ghana on January 28, 2022. Sharing her picture with her man, she wrote: “We’ve taken some time to privately enjoy this moment and bask in the celebration of it all. However, we’re beginning to understand it might be next to impossible to keep a lid on this for much longer. “After thinking long and hard, we ultimately would love for this announcement to be on our own terms and moulded in our own true narrative. Plus, you all here have followed my journey from the start and are lovingly rooted for me – Now if that isn’t family, I don’t know what is. - Advertisement - “So dear family, on the 28th of January in Ghana, delivered as a beautiful surprise and expression of love, and in the presence of some close friends and family, Oscar Hemah-Ackah asked that we spend the rest of our lives together, and I wholeheartedly said yes… without a single reservation.   Kanye West begs God to reunite family     Miss Nigeria 2021: I was told to take off hijab to be a…     Singer Portable buys father car   “I would like to add here, that every single friend or member of my family that conspired in this surprise proposal should just be on the lookout for my retaliation… Cos’ll be merciless!” “Oscar and I shall share only as much of us as we’re comfortable with. No more.. No less. We hope you will respect this, and bear with us in this regard. “Thank you for the overwhelming love and kindness you will undoubtedly show us as we count down to more festivities and the rest of our lives together. There’s not an ounce of anxiety in this place. “Oh… And before you say it… Yeeeeeesss, he knows he’s a very VERY lucky man but the beautiful thing about our connection and journey so far… Is that I know I’m a supremely lucky woman too. “Please wish us well and keep us in your prayers. “Here’s to New Beginnings!”