Manchester United striker Mason Greenwood has been released on bail following his arrest on suspicion of rape, assault and threats to kill. The club have suspended Mason Greenwood “until further notice” following the allegations which were made against the striker. Greater Manchester Police (GMP) confirmed on Wednesday morning that Greenwood had been released from custody while its investigation continues. A GMP statement reads: “A 20-year-old man arrested on Sunday 30 January 2022 on suspicion of the rape and assault of a woman has been released on bail pending further investigation.” - Advertisement - It comes after Man Utd confirmed at the weekend that Greenwood would not be involved with the club for the foreseeable future. “Mason Greenwood will not return to training or play matches until further notice,” a statement from the club said on Sunday.   Akure by-election: How Senator Alasoadura floors First Lady,…     Buhari will leave Nigeria better than he met it- BMO     We were making a skit, not eating faeces in trending video…   In an earlier statement, the Old Trafford side made it clear that they are aware of “images and allegations” that appeared on social media regarding the 20-year-old. A spokesperson for United said that the club “does not condone violence of any kind”. “Greater Manchester Police were made aware earlier today of online social media images and videos posted by a woman reporting incidents of physical violence,” the statement on Sunday read. “An investigation was launched and following enquiries we can confirm a man in his 20s has since been arrested on suspicion of rape and assault. He remains in custody for questioning. Inquiries are ongoing.” GMP were then granted additional time to question Greenwood, who was detained in custody as he was quizzed about the allegations. This extension ended on Wednesday. The statement from GMP on Sunday concluded: “We remind people to avoid any commentary or sharing of images that could compromise the victim’s right to lifelong anonymity, or risk prejudicing a live investigation with active proceedings.” Goal