Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola swept all the 30 local government areas and Ife-East Area Office in the just-concluded governorship primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He polled 222,169 votes to defeat a former Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr. Adeoti Moshood Olalekan and a former House Representatives Deputy Speaker Yusuf Sulaiman Lasun. According to the official results announced, Adeoti polled 12,921 votes to come a distant second while Lasun polled 460 votes to come third. Oyetola has extended his hands of fellowship to the other two co-contenders in the primary election. The governor urged other All Progressives Congress (APC) members to close ranks and eschew bitterness in all forms. - Advertisement - He said the time has come for all aggrieved members to join hands with him to further strengthen the party and deliver outstanding results at the governorship poll. Oyetola reiterated his administration’s commitment to running all-inclusive, equitable and participatory governance in the state. The governor said these while delivering his acceptance speech after he was declared winner by the APC Governorship Primary Election Committee, led by the Kwara State Governor AbdulRazak AbdulRahman. He described the victory as a restatement of the people’s confidence in his Development Agenda, based on “hope delivered in 2018 and performance sealed in 2022”.   Zoning: Nnamani, Ekweremadu clash over 2023 Enugu…     Enugu shuts markets, offices as council poll holds Wednesday     Governors meet Monday over new APC convention date   Oyetola said: “On this historic occasion of the peaceful conclusion of the primary election and my election as the candidate of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), in Osun, I give Glory to Almighty God for making it possible. “Once again, our great party has spoken as a beacon of democracy and as a strong and united channel of development. “We have jointly made a resolve to continue to redefine governance and re-entrench sustainable democracy. Today’s victory is made possible by the members of our great party who gave us another opportunity to face the people of Osun to seek re-election. The outcome of this primary election is victory for our party and members who have spoken loudly with their votes. “It is victory for our people who trooped out in large number during our strategic tour of the state to inform them of our intention to seek a second term. “I thank you all, our party members, for your constant support, and especially for speaking eloquently today with your massive votes in favour of our administration’s Restoration and Consolidation Agenda. “With this primary election now concluded, I invite us all to rededicate ourselves and the party to delivering an overwhelming victory at the governorship polls holding on Saturday, July 16, 2022. “For me, we are all winners. I, therefore, extend my hand of fellowship to the other two aspirants to join me as we prepare for the July election. We are all brothers. Let’s join hands to build the Osun of our dream. “Let us close ranks and eschew bitterness in whatever form. Therefore, may I use this opportunity to also ask all our aggrieved members to have a rethink and join hands with us to further strengthen our party and deliver outstanding results at the governorship poll. “To all our citizens, we thank you for standing by us in the journey of these three years plus. I promise not to let you down in the years ahead. “As we commence the electioneering campaigns, I urge all contestants across party lines to perform this exercise with utmost decency and not jeopardise the peace and tranquility our State is noted for. This is the least our people deserve and the beauty democracy requires.” SPONSORED