YOUTHS are essential in preventing and countering violence  as they are mostly targets for subversive influence, radicalisation and recruitment into extremism groups. Coordinator of Counter Terrorism Centre in the Office of National Security Adviser Rear Admiral Yaminu Musa (rtd) spoke yesterday in Abuja at the Rotary International District 9125 Peace Seminar to mark 117th anniversary of the organisation, with the theme: ”Achieving Peace in a Changing world”. Speaking on: “Non-Kinetic Approach to Addressing National Security Challenges in Nigeria,” Musa said challenges arising from activities of violent extremist groups, if not addressed, could erode the confidence and trust among citizens on the capacity of the state to guarantee their safety and security According to him, it was imperative the government design development programmes to address issues associated with conditions favourable to radicalisation. The coordinator called on governments to make efforts to remove conditions that promote radicalisation and extremism, especially among women and youths. Such conditions, he said, included illiteracy, poverty, unemployment, neglect, and human right abuse.   ‘Whistleblowers should be protected’     Assembly promises to intervene in communal crisis     ‘Boys deserve attention too’   Rotary International District 9125 Governor Ayo Oyedokun said the World Understanding and Peace Day would promote peace among everyone and community around the world. He said the organisation would promote people’s consciousness to live in peace as a nation. ”We need to eliminate poverty, we need to ensure that communities have access to quality education, potable water, security and other basic amenities”. Commandant of National Defence College Rear Admiral Murtala Bashir said Nigeria was facing security challenges, which the armed forces and other security agencies were responding to professionally. Bashir, represented by Brigadier General Mike Alechenu, noted that the success of the efforts might, however, be difficult to attain without the participation and commitment of critical stakeholders in the civil society. He said the programmes of Rotary International, such as the summit, were unquantifiable non-kinetic contributions in ensuring peace and development in Nigeria.