What interests will suffer now that President Buhari assented to the Electoral Act amendment bill? This poser is still relevant even with the belated signing of the bill into law. Even then, the president’s reservations on section 84 (12) targeted largely at statutory delegates, cannot justify the time it took to assent to the bill. Not even the excuse of wider consultations would suffice since this bill had been sent to him before. But on each occasion, he found excuses to delay and decline. Perhaps, he may have capitalized on section 84 to refuse assent but for pressure from the public. The Saraki-led National Assembly had before the 2019 elections, transmitted to him amendments to the electoral law which were to enhance the conduct of that election. But Buhari declined assent on the excuse that it came too close to the election. That election is now history. But the electoral malfeasances which the National Assembly wanted checked by amending sections of the Electoral Act, miserably featured prominently during that election. Given this, expectations were that action would be on top gear after the elections to re-work that document to ensure that our electoral past characterized by rigging, alteration and falsification of election results are consigned to the dust bin of history. But that expectation was not fast in coming. It took agitations from the larger society before the current National Assembly woke up from slumber. Even then, they disappointed not a few when they sought to subject the Independent National Electoral Commission’s INEC decision to deploy technology during elections to the approval of government agencies with no business in electoral matters. Again, it took protestations from the public for the Lawan-led National Assembly to go back to the drawing board. They moved expeditiously and came up with provisions for direct party primaries and electronic transmission of election results among others. But the president refused assent to the bill raising objections that direct primaries did not make for plurality of options; citing cost and logistic implications as some of his reservations. The National Assembly was faced with the choice of overriding the powers of the president by invoking extant constitutional provisions. Apparently to avert possible confrontation or out of deference, the National Assembly was quick to re-work that document. In the new document, direct primaries did not feature as the indirect and consensus options were adopted. Since the main objection of the president had been addressed by the new bill despite the limitations of indirect primaries, it was expected he would assent to it without delay. But again, that failed to happen. The body language of the presidency did not accord with the serious attention and urgency that document demanded.   Mefi’s orchestra     Soludo’s vibes     Way forward for micro, small and medium-sized businesses   Again, it took demonstrations from civil society groups and sundry allegations and accusations by the opposition for the presidency to come public with puerile excuses on the matter. That was a few days to the expiry of the mandatory period for presidential assent. Yet, this is a president that had copiously been giving assurances for free, fair and credible elections. The impression we get from the foot-dragging is that the Buhari regime is not very comfortable with electronic transmission of election results despite claims and pontifications to the contrary. Now that he has assented to the bill, the feeling is that he is compelled to do so by the sheer weight of public pressure. So, he cannot possibly take all the credit for assenting to the bill Only last December, during a virtual summit on democracy organized by President Joe Biden of the United State of America, Buhari promised to put in place and strengthen “all necessary mechanisms to ensure that Nigeria will not only record another peaceful transfer of power to an elected democratic government but will also ensure that elections are conducted in a free, fair and transparent manner”. That promise has been in serious conflict with his serial prevarications in assenting to the electoral bill until last Friday when he seemed to have succumbed to pressure. In modern democracies, the National Assembly represents the aggregate of the total views of the electorate. It is composed of elected representatives of the people and they speak on their behalf. They spoke clearly and eloquently on this matter and the president did not seem to have any choice than assenting to that bill if we are not contending with a verity of Robert Michel’s iron law of oligarchy. Our legislators allayed the fears of the president by expunging direct primaries from the bill.  The new bill now provides for indirect primaries and consensus as well as the visionary electronic transmission of election results. The bill is both visionary and ambitious and in it can be found effective therapeutic responses to electoral fraud and associated vices. It baffled that Buhari did not seem to have appreciated the urgency in giving that piece of legislation the utmost urgency required of it. Not even with warnings from INEC that delay in signing the bill would adversely affect its preparations for elections in two states in a few months’ time. Yet, this is one piece of legislation that could derail constitutional democracy if not given the desired handle. And what remains of a putative democratic construct that cannot guarantee the sovereignty of the electorate? Buhari touched on this contradiction when he lamented during the virtual summit that the democratic gains of the past decades are under threat of unconstitutional takeover of power…due to ‘unilateral amendment of constitutions by some African leaders’ Our democracy faced similar threats while he delayed and prevaricated on the electoral bill. The new law is most welcome. Those popular with their constituents have nothing to fear.