All roads lead to Lagos as stakeholders converge for the 19th edition of the Annual Aret Adams Memorial lecture series slated for 22nd February, 2022. The Hon. Minister of State for Environment, Chief (Mrs) Sharon Ikeazor and Dr. Thomas M. John (former GMD, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC) will be the Keynote Speaker and the Chairman. According to the Programs Coordinator of Aret Adams Foundation, Mr. Akin Jokojeje, the event tagged, ‘Global Energy Transition Agenda: Nigeria’s Preparedness?’ will have an array of seasoned professionals, technocrats and experts for this year’s lecture.   Transtura acquires WazoMoney     In search of capital market investors     ‘How to turnaround fortunes of Nigeria’s petroleum industry’   Amongst the facilitators are: Mike Sangster, Managing Director/CEO of Total Energies Plc, Mr. Osten Olorunsola, former DG, Department of Petroleum Resources, Mr. Osam Iyahen, Director of Natural Resources Investments, Africa Finance Corporation (AFC) and Mr Gbite Adeniji, Partner, ENR Advisory. As expected, major players and stakeholders in the oil and gas industry, financial institutions, manufacturing as well as captains of industries are expected at the event. - Advertisement - He said that the Foundation was established in honour of the late Chief Godwin Aret Adams, the first Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (1988 to 1990), who later became the Special Adviser on Petroleum Resources to former Head of State, Federal Republic of Nigeria, Gen. Abdulsalam Abubakar (rtd) in1998, adding that Aret Adams made outstanding contributions toward the growth of Nigeria’s oil & gas industry and the nation’s economy in general. Also giving an insight into the forthcoming annual lecture, the Chairman, Board of Trustees of the Foundation, Engr, Charles Osezua, noted that Chief Aret Adams left behind legacy of excellence and transparency in government transactions, development through market growth, good business value, free market competition and many more, which have reflected in many lives he touched, irrespective of tribe or religion affiliations while he was alive. SPONSORED