The Kano State Hisbah Board has destroyed over 3.8 million bottles of assorted beer that were confiscated in the last few months. The Commander-General of the board, Dr Harun Ibn- Sina, stated this during the destruction of the seized beer at Tudun Kalebawa, Dawakin Tofa local government area on Wednesday. Ibn-Sina explained that the board is winning the fight against drug abuse, intoxicants and all other societal vices. He said the state government approved the destruction of the intoxicants, hence the conduct of the exercise. ” This paved way for the board to secure a court order from Chief Magistrates’ Court, Kano, to damage all the seized beer in its custody. - Advertisement - “The sale, consumption, and possession of alcoholic substances are prohibited in the state,” Ibn-Sina, added. He commended the state government for its dedication towards mitigating societal problems and ensuring that Kano competes with others globally.   Two sentenced to death for killing sex worker in Anambra     ASUU: Comprehensive, indefinite strike inevitable unless…     VIDEO: Singer Portable buys car for dad   In the same vein, Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje has reiterated the state government’s commitment to the welfare of the board’s personnel. Ganduje was represented at the event by the member, representing Albasu Local Government in the State House of Assembly and the Chairman, House Committee on Religious Affairs, Hon. Sunusi Usman-Batayya. Ganduje said that Kano is one of the most peaceful states due to the tireless efforts of the state government and other relevant stakeholders. The governor urged the general public to support the government’s efforts by inculcating good moral values in their children to maintain a crime-free society. “Kano is the first state to establish a ministry for religious affairs in the country which has gone a long way in promoting peaceful coexistence. “Hisbah personnel should maintain the tempo as miscreants had devised new tactics of smuggling beer and hard drugs into the state”, Ganduje said. (NAN)