The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) have underscored the importance of professionalism and ethics in the sustainable development of the capital market. At a meeting in Abuja, SEC, the apex capital market regulator and CIS, the largest self regulatory organisation (SRO) in the market, agreed that capital market operators need to maintain professionalism and good ethical conduct in the discharge of their duties. Director-General, SEC, Mr. Lamido Yuguda said professionalism and ethics make the market more transparent, thereby attracting more investors. He solicited the support of the CIS in the commission’s quest to improve professionalism and good conduct in the capital market while commending the institute for working in tandem with the overall interest of the market. “CIS has supported the SEC in our various initiatives in the past and we hope that this support will continue with the various initiatives we plan to roll out this year. We, therefore, urge the CIS to encourage its members to uphold the Code of Ethics of the profession and as contained in the Rules and regulations of the commission,” Yuguda said. - Advertisement - He noted the importance of a harmonious working relationship between the regulator and the self-regulatory organisations adding that it would translate into a more vibrant capital market. “It is very important for us to work harmoniously we want a harmonious capital market where the regulators and the self-regulatory organisations complement each other. We want a harmonious capital market where the forces compliment and rein-enforce each other and not fight. With all the initiatives we are bringing out in place, we are all heading towards a more robust and vibrant market,” Yuguda said.   ‘Saving culture important to surviving harsh economy’     FMDQ Exchange lists N154b commercial papers, mutual funds     MTN Nigeria has potential for higher returns, say analysts   He pointed out that capital market operators are the face of the market and they interact daily with investors adding that it is therefore important that they prioritise interest of investors over their own and be seen to demonstrate the highest level of integrity and transparency in conducting their activities. According to him, poor conduct dissuades investors from the market and therefore counters the collective objective of broadening and deepening the market. “We also expect that the institute will continue to make it mandatory for its members to undertake annual professional development programmes that address emerging issues. I believe that this will go a long way in ensuring that the practitioners in the market are highly skilled and are equipped to make real impact towards growing the market,” Yuguda said. President, Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Mr Olatunde Amolegbe commended the SEC on the various initiatives is has been carrying out in a bid to deepen and develop the market, adding that stockbrokers would continue to provide the necessary supports. Past President of CIS, Mr. Ariyo Olushekun added that CIS is committed to working with the SEC to ensure professionalism in the capital market, improve ethical standards and weed out bad eggs in the market. He said collaboration among the regulators will strengthen confidence and lead to more investors back to the market so that the market can play the role it is supposed to play in the economy of the country. He assured that CIS will always work with the SEC not only to develop the market but also to police the market.     SPONSORED