While footballers enlisting in the military is an uncommon event, it has occurred in recent decades from World Cup winners to all-time greats, various footballers have served in their nation’s military. The French legend began his professional career with Auxerre, making his debut in 1983 at just 17. Just as his professional career was getting started, it was put on hold. Eric had to complete two years of military service for the French Army and only returned to play football professionally in 1986. - Advertisement - Eric Cantona enjoyed a hugely successful football career which saw him win four Premier League titles with Manchester United and many individual awards. Mohamed Salah, a former Chelsea midfielder who now plays for Liverpool, is one of the few players who have served in the military. He had the opportunity to serve his country in the military. Of course, his football career exempted him from Egyptian military service for a time. Mohamed Salah normally returns to Egypt to serve in the military during his time at Chelsea. However, the Egyptians enrolled in a national schooling program that exempts enrollees from military service. Manchester United legend and England’s all-time second-highest goalscorer, Sir Bobby Charlton, served in the Royal Army Ordnance Corps in Shrewsbury due to mandatory military service. He served in the Army in the same year he made his debut for Manchester United.   JUST IN: Gunmen kill two policemen, abduct two in Enugu…     Boko Haram will end before 2023 handover – Zulum     BREAKING: Selling forex to banks to end in 2022 – CBN   One of the most recent and famous footballers to have a spell in the military was South Korean footballer Heung-min Son who completed a compulsory period of national service in May 2020. The winger, who plays for English club Tottenham Hotspur in the Premier League, was one of the top five recruits and was given an award for his performance. Having originally had to serve 21 months, Son’s service was shortened to three weeks after South Korea won the Asian Games in 2018. Military service was mandatory in Italy until 2004 and as Maldini was coming up through the footballing ranks, he served sometime in the Italian army’s ranks. He went on to make more than 900 appearances for AC Milan, winning numerous titles and Champions League trophies. Fabio Cannavaro also served in the Italian military due to the mandatory service. He had a glittering football career, captaining Italy to a World Cup win in 2004 as well as winning multiple league titles in Spain with Real Madrid. But Fabio Cannavaro also enjoyed footballing success in the military, winning the World Military Cup while serving his country in 1995-1996. The Finnish star turned down Sir Alex Ferguson’s Manchester United for his mandatory national service in his country’s Army. Back in 1997, He had a successful trial at Old Trafford, having scored few goals in the same team with the likes Eric Cantona, Karel Poborsky and Paul Scholes. He was poised to return for another spell at Carrington until the call for national service in Finland came: “I was at Manchester United for a few weeks but in Finland you have to do army service and that was just before then,” explained Tainio.