One perennial problem that commercial bank depositors in Nigeria have persistently had to cope with is that of the arbitrary and excess charges they are routinely levied purportedly for assorted services rendered by these financial institutions. It is obviously in response to incessant complaints by bank customers that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has announced new guidelines on charges by banks, other financial institutions and non-bank financial institutions. The apex bank’s director, financial policy and regulation department, Mr Chibuzor Efobi, in a fresh circular stated that the review was prompted by “further evolution in the financial industry in the last few years”. In the new charges’ guidelines, the CBN slashed charges for Automated Teller Machine (ATM) withdrawals from N65 to N35 after the third withdrawal within the same month, while the charges on interbank transfers was reduced from N300 to a maximum of N50 per transaction. Furthermore, charges on bills payment, including those effected through other e-chanñels, have been reduced from N1,200 to a maximum of no more than N500 per beneficiary payable by the sender. In the same vein, charges on electronic funds transfer have been reviewed downward to N10 for a transaction below N5,000; N26 for transactions of N5,001 to N50,000 and N50 for transactions above N50,000. While debit card maintenance charge that was N100 per month has been removed, charges on ATM bill payments have been slashed from N100 to N50. Can bank customers thus breathe an air of relief that the era of arbitrary, excess and illegal charges by these financial institutions is over? It is difficult to answer this question in the affirmative because this is not the first time that the apex bank will raise the hopes of bank depositors in this regard with hardly any change in the situation. For instance, in a circular issued in 2015, the CBN  had stated that “It was in the quest to provide a strong voice to banks’ customers and moderate the arbitrary charges that the CBN in 2012 established its Consumer Protection Department. For the avoidance of doubt, the CBN has investigated over 6,000 complaints relating to unauthorised bank charges brought to its notice, following which banks have been compelled to refund the sum of over N6.2 billion to affected customers in 2015 alone”.   APC convention: Stakeholders back Musa for national chairman     Supreme Court fixes judgment for May 6 in Rivers, Imo…     MOSIEND threatens to shut down oil firms in Akwa Ibom   Bank customers have experienced hardly any relief from excess and unauthorised charges since then. On December, 20, 2019, the CBN again issued revised guidelines on bank charges. The new rules specified a flat fee of N50 for electronic transfers above N5,000 and a maximum of N10 for transfers below N5,000. Savings accounts were to attract a fee of N50 per quarter down from the previous N50 per month while ATM charges were reduced to N35 after third withdrawal within a month from N65. Similarly, annual maintenance fee on foreign currency denominated cards was reduced from $20 to $10. These guidelines were however observed more in the breach by the banks. Thus, in 2020, the CBN reported that, following complaints by 13,000 customers over excess and illegal charges by banks on their accounts, it had recovered over N60billion of these illegal funds from the banks which were returned to the affected depositors. The story was no different in 2021 when the apex bank said it had recovered N89.2 billion excess and illegal charges which were imposed on customers by banks as at June that year. This recovered amount was refunded to 22,173 of the 23,526 customers who had filed complaints with the CBN. - Advertisement - It would appear that the focus of the CBN has been to recover excess and unauthorised charges from erring banks and refunding such to shortchanged customers rather than putting in place effective deterrent measures to discourage banks from engaging in the imposition of illegal charges in the first place. Whatever is the current penalty imposed on banks for violating the apex bank’s guidelines on bank charges is having negligible impact and should be substantially reviewed forthwith to enforce the requisite compliance. Rather than seek to achieve profitability through the efficient performance of their traditional role of offering financial services for the growth and prosperity of the real sector of the economy, most banks seem content to make easy money through levying excess and unauthorised charges on depositors. Thus, earnings from maintenance charges is estimated to constitute a substantial chunk of bank revenues. Beyond issuing ineffectual guidelines, the CBN should take more concrete steps to ensure that banks comply with stipulated charges. Those who make complaints to the apex bank for redress are certainly only a small fraction of customers affected by this illegality, which has become standard practice of banks in the country.