The camps of the Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi and Senator Magnus Abe have renewed their political warfare ahead of the next year’s general elections in Rivers State. The Abe group is still at the Rivers State High Court praying for the nullification of the congresses held by the All Progressives Congress (APC) following the alleged exclusion of its members. But the party has initiated peace moves by setting up a reconciliation committee. Two members of the Amaechi camp claimed that they were invited to the residence of Worgu Boms, a lawyer and key member of the Abe group. The purported meeting was allegedly to perfect the modalities of deploying the court case to stop the APC from contesting the 2023 elections. - Advertisement - It was also claimed that Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Chairman in Rivers, Desmond Akawor, attended the meeting. Abe described the claims as poorly-performed comedy scripts by two actors, saying it was part of a plot to blackmail him ahead of the APC National Convention. Abe said people were already aware of the politics of hatred and the multi-million naira smear campaign that had been sponsored against him. He said: “In their latest desperation, the minister’s faction of the party has come up with a comic, infantile video to tell barefaced lies against my person. “The so-called press conference by these desperadoes is nothing but a reflection of the frustration of a leadership that has clearly run out of ideas. “Ordinarily, it would suffice for comic entertainment if the issues raised and their consequences for our party and our state were not so grave. “The allegations made by these gentlemen in the public glare constitute a conspiracy by Barrister Worgu Boms, Ambassador Desmond Akawor and the others named, to pervert the cause of justice, and if such a meeting was held all those involved ought to be prosecuted and punished, no matter how highly placed”. Abe said he had directed his solicitors to submit a petition to the Commissioner of Police in Rivers State demanding an immediate investigation of the allegations. The Senator added: “All these efforts and money spent to sow hate and division within the party, can’t we put them into a genuine effort to build a party that can compete in a proper election in Rivers State? “Will destroying Senator Abe in Rivers politics help the APC gather more votes in the state? “It is only fools that will keep doing the same thing and expect a different result. Once again, let me appeal to genuine members of the APC in Rivers State to come together and take our destiny into our hands before it is too late.   UBEC, UNICEF to assess learning achievement     Southeast won’t accept vice president, says Ohanaeze     Okorocha, six others for arraignment Tuesday over alleged…   “Let me appeal to the national leadership of the APC to join us to demand that the police should investigate the allegations aggressively so that the state chairman of the PDP and all those involved in this alleged heinous act can be punished to our satisfaction. “On the contrary, if it is established that this was sponsored, orchestrated by desperate politicians within the APC in Rivers State, they should equally be held to account as the same amounts to criminal defamation. “It should be clear to all by now, that people who can contrive and sponsor this serial show of shame have no place in a party of integrity. The time to act is now”. As if heeding Abe’s call, the state APC has initiated moves to reconcile aggrieved members. It promised to provide a level playing field for all members who wish to contest any elective position, ruling out the adoption of sole candidates. Speaking in Port Harcourt yesterday while inaugurating reconciliation, finance and media committees, the Rivers Chairman of APC, Chief Emeka Beke, said he was keen to ensure peace in APC. He said there was a need for all members to work as a family to win elections. “As a political party, a lot of people are aggrieved. You need to reconcile them and that is our primary focus; to make sure that everybody works together as a family. “That is why we decided to set up this reconciliation committee to make sure that we bring back members of the party for us to work together. “I can tell you as the Chairman of the party, my assignment is to put the party together. “There is a level playing field for everybody, for anybody who wants to participate in anything in this party. “Right now, we are building up the house, we need everybody for us to work as a family. There is nobody bigger than the other person,” the chairman said. Beke said the team would engage Abe and his supporters, insisting that the senator would not be denied access to the party. He said: “That is why we want to talk to everybody including Senator Abe. We will talk to him. He is a member of this party. There is no way he would be left out. “As chairman of the party, I have said that a levelled playing ground will be given to everybody as long as you will play by the rules of the party. “Every organization has its rules and regulations. Whoever is interested to run an election will have a levelled playing ground in the 2023 election.” SPONSORED