No fewer than five persons, including an unnamed suspected drug baron, were killed on Monday in a renewed cult war in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State capital, between notorious members of the Bobos and Iceland cult groups. It was learnt that scores of persons were severely injured during the clash, which led to the lockdown of some streets in the Yenagoa metropolis. THE NATION gathered the killings, which started in the early hours of Monday at OMPADEC area of the state capital, spread to neighbouring areas such as Amarata and Ekeki. The development was said to have left residents of the areas in disarray with many of them abandoning their areas for safety. A source said that the killing of the suspected hard drug peddler at OMPADEC area around 3am by suspected Bobos cult members might have triggered the anger of the Iceland boys who control the Amarata area. - Advertisement - The deceased drug peddler, whom some persons claimed did not belong to either of the cult groups, was said to have had a verbal altercation with some unknown persons at a popular lounge in Amarata (Kimowei Lounge) during a birthday party. He was said to have been trailed to his house and shot twice before they inflicted machete cuts on him resulting in his death.   Avoid money ritual contents, FG directs filmmakers     Truck driver kills two passengers in Anambra accident     UPDATED: Court rejects suit challenging Atiku’s…   “We heard two gunshots fired at about 3 am. And we heard voices shouting all over the place. “Some persons were killed in the course of the clash in the areas,” a source, who craved anonymity, claimed. It was learnt in reprisal, the Icelanders invaded the Ebis Mechanic base of the Bobos and shot dead one boy known only as Peter in broad daylight. They also allegedly dispossessed residents of mobile phones and other valuables at gun points. It could not be ascertained the reason for the escalation of hostilities between the two rival cult groups. But it was learnt that it was not unconnected with the killing of the suspected drug baron, whom some persons claimed had a cult following from one of the cult groups. Spokesman for the Bayelsa State Police Command, Asinim Butswat, confirmed the renewed cult clash in the state capital. He, however, said only one person was killed along the Ebis Mechanic area, adding that operatives of the ‘A’ Divisional headquarters were investigating and searching for the deceased’s family. End. SPONSORED