A leading African Economist and Management scholar Professor Austin Nosike has been appointed Deputy Vice-Chancellor (DVC) of Copperstone University (CU) in Zambia. According to an official statement by the University Registrar, Ms Jane Matindo, the Governing Council approved the appointment of Professor Austin Nosike as substantive Deputy Vice Chancellor-Academics & Research of the institution. The varsity said: “Professor Nosike brings to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor duties and responsibilities, a proven track record of academic pedigree, administrative expertise, professional experience and community services having previously held academic leadership and governance roles as Director, Registrar, Dean, and Head of Department in addition to serving as Chairman and/or Member of over 30 Committees in various universities across the globe”. By the appointment, Professor Nosike is Principal Officer of the university in charge of academic leadership, resource mobilization, innovation and research administration. Prof Nosike will also to serve as tenured full Professor of Economics & Management in the University’s School of Business. - Advertisement - Nosike said: “I wish to express profound appreciation to the Governing Council for this great opportnity given to me to be of service. “It is indeed an honour and privilege to join Copperstone University, a leading African University whose vision and values revolve around service, nation building and leadership for development. “I’m pleased to be part of CU community at a critical period in which there is so much capacity to strengthen and create new partnerships and strong linkages to expand access and enhance participation for the next generation of students, alumni, and for sustainability throughout the globe.   Building of Nubian American Advanced College dedicated in…     Old boys relive school memories     BSU, Ashi Poly sign MoU   “I am looking forward to engaging with students, colleagues and alumni as we shape the new face of the institution.” Born in Emii-Owerri, the erudite and seasoned Professor has three decades of experience in higher education and human capacity building. Professor Nosike began his career as a Journalist, human rights activist and public relations professional. He has held several teaching, research and consulting positions at Kaduna Polytechnic; Nigerian Defense Academy; Technological and Economic Development Mission-(TEDEM); Alvan Ikoku College of Education, Owerri; The African Management Institute, African Union Commission, Addis Ababa-Ethiopia and a number of other international agencies, governments and civil societies including serving as President, Development Africa Consortium, a leading international consulting and research institution founded in 1996. Professor Nosike has taught, researched, supervised, and examined Bachelors, Masters and PhD students in the áreas of Business, Economics and Public Policy at University of Technology and Arts of Byumba (UTAB); University of Lay Adventists of Kigali(UNILAK); University of Kigali (UoK); Kayiwa International University(KINTU); Kigali Independent University(ULK); Metropolitan International University (MIU); Ballsbridge University; Granada Management Institute (Universidad de Granada), Granada-Spain; Afro-Euro Centre for Development Studies and Mediterranean Centre for Social and Educational Research (Sapienza University), Rome-Italy amongst others. He has been a Visiting Scholar of Globalization and Development at Universidad de Basque Country, Gipuzkoa-Spain; He is recipient of First Prize Essay Award, 1992 International Essay Competition for Nigerian University Students (Forum for the Advancement of Nigeria, Philadelphia-USA). He has received other awards, honours, recognition and prizes including the West Coast University Research Award; Central European University Fellowship Award; Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs Travel Research Grant Award; International Institute of Human Rights Fellowship Award; Imo State Government Scholarship Award (Imo State Scholarship Board);International Youth of the Year Award(Africa), International Biographical Centre, Cambridge-England; Marquis Who’s Who in the World; International Who’s Who of Professionals, North Carolina-USA;20th Century Award for Achievement in Education; Dictionary of International Biography and Special Commendation from the Chairman of Editorial Board, Imo Newspapers Ltd (The Statesman). Since the 1990s, Professor Nosike has organised over 100 international conferences, seminars and workshops across the globe. He has participated, co-ordinated and served on over 30 research programs.