The rating ecosystem in the continent of Africa has received a major boost with the participation of a global player in the mode of Moody’s Corporation (MCO), which announced at the weekend that it has agreed to acquire a majority (51%) stake in Global Credit Rating Company Limited (GCR). GCR is a leading credit rating agency in Africa with operations spanning the continent, including in South Africa, Nigeria, Senegal, Kenya, and Mauritius. “GCR’s ratings play a significant role in the growth of Africa’s financial markets by providing critical insights into credit across a range of economies and sectors,” said Rob Fauber, President & Chief Executive Officer of Moody’s. “By combining GCR’s successful domestic operations with Moody’s global expertise, we have a unique opportunity to expand Moody’s presence in a high-growth region,”Fauber added. Speaking on this development, Abimbola Adeseyoju,  Chief  Executive Officer, DataPro Group, a leading Compliance Solutions Company in Nigeria, and one of  the licensed Data Protection Compliance Organisations (DPCO) shared useful insights on the significance and importance of the deal.   Ministry gets N210b SUKUK funding for roads     Fed Govt eyes N50b from Onitsha River Port concession     ‘Oil and gas’ll account for over 50% energy mix’   - Advertisement - According to him, Moody’s presence in Nigeria will draw traffic to rating potentials and value propositions in the country and open up more possibilities. “It’s a win-win for everybody. With your support and encouragement we will continue to deliver more and better.” Upbeat, Adeseyoju said his company is poised to harness any opportunity deriving from Moody’s entrance to the Nigerian market even as he impressed on other rating professionals to get ready for the revolution about to begin in the rating landscape, especially within Nigeria and Africa South of the Sahara. “Interesting times ahead. We mentally and materially pushed ourselves to be more relevant in the market in 2021. We are going to do more in 2022 using technology and also partnership to re-position DataPro for the opportunities and  challenges ahead. Rating is a global profession that is scientifically motivated, with rules and regulations guiding the industry.” Pressed further, the. DataPro boss noted that his company’s e-newsletter “Monthly Rating Brief” early this week, is part of ongoing efforts at deepening the industry and creating the needed awareness and utilisation. ‘ We welcome new developments that will add value to the sector and provide the impetus for new offerings needed for increased efficiency in capital and resource allocation in Nigeria. The rating industry when fully aligned is that of complementarity among operators and not competitiveness. This will be our focus going forward.”