Didi Edet started life designing outfits and running a fashion show. Today, she is a data analyst, debt recovery expert, author and relationship coach. In this interview with Yetunde Oladeinde she takes you into her world, the things that inspire her, challenges and more. As an economist, you believe that happy people are more productive and efficient. Tell us more about this. I absolutely believe that happier people are more productive and there have been some studies that support this claim. This is similar to how most economies use the GDP (gross domestic product) as a measurement indicator for value and productivity, the GDH (gross domestic happiness) is also a Measurement indicator of happiness and welfare which goes beyond income and includes having meaningful relationships. Bhutan is one country that uses the GNH—or Gross National Happiness to effectively measure the Happiness of his people. The citizens are surveyed based on criteria like health, psychological wellbeing, living standards, life balance, and cultural diversity. The fact the GDH takes the quality of life as an indicating factor is intriguing to me. Psychological wellbeing is an indicating factor to GDH. Being in a social or any sort of relationship that has a positive impact on your Psychological wellbeing, I believe will translate to some level of happiness which by GDH standards translates to a productive and more efficient economy. What are some of the memorable moments in the sector? There has been some memorable moments depending on the angle that question is focused on. In the aspect of the platform and it’s growth, I can think of 3 major memorable moments which made me feel like the platform was making a positive impact. One of which was being contacted by Phillipa Thomas to be interviewed on BBC World news as our dating in quarantine series had gone a little viral considering the situation we found ourselves in. I was still getting messages months later from Hungary, Ukraine and other countries as it was viewed at different times around the world. I also have 2 major memorable moments but it’s still in the works so I’ll probably discuss it at a later time. Did you have mentors at the beginning of your career? What has been their impact? Matchmaking is a new and growing industry in Nigeria so there was no template or experienced professional to look up to. We had to create our own path so I did not have a mentor in that aspect. But I did have a lot of support when it comes to entrepreneurship. Over time I tried out various businesses, like most people, and I’ve been lucky to always have support. Chief Edet Amana has been a huge support, from the very first thing I tried my hands into till today, he always tried to support in everyway. My first memory of entrepreneurship was designing the outfits for the Cheerleading Squad in my secondary school which also allowed me channel my interest in fashion and clothing and I eventually decided to do a fashion show in Calabar. Chief Edet Amana came all the way to my little show as a way to show his support. I didn’t know a lot about organising a show, so the turnout was low. Yet, I felt so supported by the sacrifice he made to be there. No matter how silly your idea is, he would never discourage you. I would say the impact I have received from his support is learning to try my hands in different things and not being afraid of failing. Tell us about your books and the things that influence your writing? I am yet to write my first book on dating! However I am an author of books centered on aspects of Nigeria’s economics. The first was on the banking consolidation that happened in 2004, and the second titled, Rollercoaster, essentially talked about the external debt in Nigeria and it’s rollercoaster-like movement. I am yet to write a book about dating but with the dating scene changing so often that it’s hard to keep up with. I will one day. What dreams did you have while growing up? As a Nigerian child, I’m not sure we were allowed to have dreams as in those days. Our parents had dreams for us that we were expected to live out. I remember in secondary school, you were put in the class of your best abilities which was Economics for me, but my parents like most Nigerian parents would have probably done, requested that I be moved to the Science class even though I had and still have no interest whatsoever in Science. My only interest was in the social science of Economics and I eventually found my way back to that – eventually pursuing it to Bachelors and Masters Levels. My sister is a forensic scientist by choice so at least they got the science part in one of us. What are the challenges of the business?   Girls, manifest your dreams in 2022 and shine like a star!…     WASA: Age-long tradition that unites families in military…     Female Genital Mutilation: The hurt, the deprivation, the…   I think we face pretty much the same challenges most businesses do. A major challenge I would say would be staffing. The duties expected of a staff of the platform are not as regular as roles in other work places. So, getting staff to understand the roles, training them in the roles and have them perform well in it can be very challenging. We are also very privacy focused so we should be able to trust our staff with confidential information which is very important so we limit the access to such information to a small group of people but that ultimately increases their work load as well. You also worked in the debt management office, tell us about that. At the point when I was pursuing a PhD, my topic centered on debt management, to be precise, external debt management in Nigeria. As a youth corper, I had worked briefly in Nigerian Import and Export bank (NEXIM). Combing through their extensive office library, I was able to find an aspect of Economics that was intriguing to me so I focused on it – External Debt Management in Nigeria. I eventually wrote a book on it as well. What are some of the lessons learnt matchmaking people? I think being single myself, I am learning everyday. I learn a lot from the platform on how dating has evolved over years – women are definitely more proactive these days without pursuing, what people want and what’s truly important in the grand scheme of things . There are aspects of a person that can be changed and this should not be the basis of excluding a person. However the platform focuses on dating alone and does not delve into the relationship part of life which is a whole different ball game on its own. Have you heard of the term ‘coaches don’t play’? Nobody bothers Arsene Wenger for not being a football player first and that’s because playing and coaching needs different skillset. A player needs to be good at running, dribbling etc while a coach needs to be good at seeing the big picture, strategizing etc. I think that scenario applies to me as a dating coach or a matchmaker. Although I am single, I can see the big picture and can run the platform that brings people together. We all have blind spots, myself included. If I were to date seriously, I would also consider working with a matchmaker or a coach as that person would see my own blindspots. The platform is focused on dating and not on my own experiences and status. In order to do my job effectively, I need to look at what is happening on the single scene, and match people up based on their wants. In the international matchmaking sceen,  there is the founder of Bumble, Whitney Wolfe, who started the platform in 2014 while single and she got married in 2017. One of the most prominent matchmakers, Patti Stanger has been running her platform since 2000 and in 2022 she is still single but has made so many matches over the years. I also recall my professor of entrepreneurship at the University of St Andrews, who has never been an entrepreneur but has always been  a professor on entrepreneurship. We, the students and the school board never once doubted his ability to provide the information needed to learn how to be a good entrepreneur. I feel the focus should be on if the platform has been successful in connecting individuals and less focused on the personal life of the lead matchmaker and other staff members. Who or what do you consider as the greatest influence in your life? My parents have been wonderful influences. My mother has always been the entrepreneur parent and my father has always been the educational parent. So, they have equally influenced me in giving me a great blend that I feel everyone needs. It’s not enough to be in love with being an entrepreneur, the quest for knowledge and wanting to constantly get better in what you do is very necessary too. I think they both bring in the perfect blend. My father doesn’t shy away from challenges I would consider huge. So, that has also encouraged me, to be able to say yes to things I typically feared and thought were beyond my reach. My mother believes in my abilities more than I believe in myself. My sister Edak and my mum are really similar in that way. They are optimistic about everything and it’s very refreshing.