All is not well within the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Akwa Ibom State. At the centre of the looming crisis is leader of the party Governor Udom Emmanuel. The governor and the state chapter of PDP have been trending since last Sunday, when he caused serious consternation among politicians in the state by officially presenting Commissioner for Lands, Pastor Umo Bassey Eno, as his anointed successor when his tenure expires in 2023. Sources say the governor’s action took many leaders and chieftains of the party by surprise and “there is serious anxiety and agitation within PDP in Akwa Ibom as we speak. What happened is simply unusual. Many people think it is too brazen.” The announcement and formal presentation of Eno by Emmanuel at a state PDP stakeholders’ meeting at Governor’s Lodge in Uyo, the state capital, ending months of speculation on who the governor may have in mind to succeed him. But the announcement, rather than put an end to the aspirations of some of the governor’s men, has merely strengthened their resolve to fight for the ticket and in the process, confront Emmanuel himself. - Advertisement - Making the formal presentation of Eno to party stakeholders, former governor Obong Victor Attah who is chairman of PDP Stakeholders, said the choice of Eno to succeed Emmanuel was the best as he will seamlessly carry on legacies of the incumbent. He added that stakeholders, comprising leading political chieftains from the three senatorial districts, were all in support of the governor’s choice of Eno and have resolved to work together to make sure he succeeds Emmanuel. Social media commentators are also trolling over a picture of Eno kneeling down before Emmanuel. The picture emerged on the internet shortly after the controversial endorsement. Many, including clergymen within and outside the state have faulted the photograph. But it is unclear when or where the picture was taken.   Navy destroys 175 illegal refining sites, arrests 27 vessels     51 monarchs receive Staff of office in Imo     Actors, directors, producers speak on Nollywood’s…   Reacting to the governor’s action, PDP’s former national legal adviser, Emmanuel Enoidem, said the choice of Eno came after series of consultations with relevant stakeholders and prayers to God to reveal the right individual that will continue the incumbent’s legacies. “God has revealed to our dear Governor Udom Emmanuel that Pastor Umo Eno will be the right person to succeed him after his tenure in 2023,” he said. But barely three hours after the public endorsement of Eno, a federal lawmaker from the state, Onofiok Luke, who represents Etinan Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, reacted defiantly saying, “my aspiration to serve the state in the capacity of the Governor remains on course.” Luke, an ally of the governor and a former Speaker of the Akwa Ibom House of Assembly said he totally disagrees with the way Eno was presented. “It was at the said meeting that I heard of the agenda and choice for the first time and no one held any discussion with me prior to the meeting. My supporters and those sympathetic to my cause should please note that we are as resolute as ever in our desire to give our people purposeful leadership in the office of the governor come 2023,” he said. Many people are worried that Emmanuel may clash with many of his political allies over his decision to back Eno. Already a prominent religious group, Akwa Ibom Council of Ministers, has rejected the choice of Eno and described the governor’s action as an act of imposition.  Apostle Joseph Nyong, the group’s President, said Emmanuel did not “display equity and fairness in endorsing Eno. Such endorsement does not only smack of imposition and direct affront on the political will of majority of Akwa Ibom people, but it is also a clear violation of the longstanding and immutable zoning arrangements in the state.’ Time will tell if Emmanuel pulls off this uncommon anointment or gets his fingers burnt like Attah – the man who introduced Eno – who once upon a time anointed his son-in-law as successor, only to see him lose out to Godswill Akpabio – the one who would dub himself the Uncommon Transformer!