Ethiopia, the most historically important country in Africa has been plagued by serious political crisis eventuating in cruel civil war in which Tigray, a rebellious state is fighting against the federal government of Ethiopia. Unfortunately, it is the common people of Ethiopia who are paying the price. Ethiopia is in the volatile Horn of Africa where people of different cultures are lumped together and where the three monotheistic religions of Judaism, Christianity and Islam were to be found in the past. Ethiopia is an ancient country that existed millennia before the birth of Christ. It was founded according to its myth of origin by King Menelik1, the son of Queen of Sheba and the Israeli King Solomon. Some part of it like Axum and Cush were well known in ancient times as centres of civilizations belonging to the same cultural area that produced the great civilization of Ancient Egypt. In medieval Europe, the place used to be referred to as the land of Prester John, a mythical Christian king in Africa. The country before the disastrous attempted colonization by Italy which ended when Ethiopia inflicted a military defeat on Italy in 1896 was ruled by emperors descended from the Solomonic dynasty. This dynasty provided a rallying point for Ethiopia in times of foreign invasion or national implosion. In modern times, Emperor Haile Selassie who ruled as regent from 1916 to 1930 when he was Ras Tafari Makonnen and as emperor from 1930 to 1974 was able to mobilize his people to resist the forces of Benito Mussolini, the fascist dictator of Italy in 1935 when he tried to wipe out the humiliation Italy suffered from the Ethiopian military defeat of Adowa in 1896. The free world aided the emperor who escaped to Britain but returned to the country in 1941. Since the end of the Second World war, the country has been held together in spite of the fissiparous tendencies pulling the country apart by the strong government provided by the emperor and after the emperor was overthrown in 1974, by the military which continued the era of strong central government. The country has passed through various military governments which of course lacked the kind of legitimacy the Solomonic dynasty had. There was an attempt during the brutal rule of Colonel Haile Mariam Mengitsu from 1977 to 1991 to build a socialist ideology around the military regime when he was General Secretary of Ethiopian Workers Party. Many opponents were murdered and all opposition was suppressed. People’s homes were seized and given to the poor under the guise of proletarian revolution. Eventually the regime was toppled by the Ethiopian Peoples’ Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) and Mengitsu fled the country to Mugabe’s Harare and possibly now to South Africa for political asylum. After some period of instability, a democratic left wing government under Prime Minister Meles Zenawi from Tigray as leader of Tigray Peoples Liberation Front ( TPLF) was installed in 1991and 9191. He ruled the country with the traditional Ethiopian harsh rule brooking no opposition until he died in office in 2012. He introduced the idea of ethnic federalism into Ethiopia, an idea pregnant with future problems as we can see today. He brought a lot of economic development to the country and began building the mega dam on the White Nile whose origin is in Ethiopia with the idea of generating immense hydroelectric power to industrialize the country. This great development plan could possibly bring Ethiopia into future war with Sudan and Egypt whose very lives depend on the uninterrupted flow of the Nile into their countries. It was during his regime that Eritrea which had been fighting to secede from Ethiopia was granted independence and the new Ethiopian constitution granted full autonomy to all the country’s provinces with the power to secede if any wanted to do so. Apparently, the framers of the constitution never imagined any group would like to take up the option. The secession of Eritrea, the former Italian colony from Ethiopia turned the country into a landlocked country with serious implication for its economic development because for years Ethiopia and Eritrea remained in state of belligerency. Ethiopia and Eritrea are peopled by same people separated by colonialism.   Creeping insecurity in Southwest     Russia, NATO and the Ukraine crisis     The unfinished Ibadan’s Obafemi Awolowo rail station   When Meles Zenawi died, he was succeeded by Hailemariam Desalegn Boshe who remained in office from 2012 to 2018. He came to office with great experience having served under Zenawi as deputy prime minister and also served as minister of foreign affairs. Like others before him, he faced the intractable problems of poverty, population explosion and unemployment .This has created a lot of dissatisfaction  in the country and this problem was inherited by the current prime minister, Abiy Ahmed Ahmed, who came to office with a lot of promise of unity in diversity. Ethiopia is almost 60 % Christian and 40 % Muslim. Some writers claim that the Muslims are actually in the majority. Ahmed himself is of the Pentecostal Christian faith with an Oromo Muslim father and a Christian mother from the Amhara group. He therefore, represents an ecumenical factor in a highly religiously plural country.  The complex religious situation of the country is illustrated by the fact that Haile Selassie became Regent in 1916 when the young emperor Lij Eyasu declared himself a Muslim and pledged allegiance to the Ottoman emperor, a tactical mistake in the time of the First World War which sealed his fate and he was never seen again and probably withered away in some prison in the country. A year after Abiy Ahmed came to office, the young prime minister signed a peace accord with Eritrea, ending the years of conflict with his neighbour. He also tried to bring unity among the usually quarrelsome Ethiopian people. For his efforts, he was awarded the Nobel Prize for peace in 2019, which critics now say was rather premature. - Advertisement - The present crisis has some religious and ethnic undertones. The government of Tigray had locked horns with the federal government over electoral schedules. It went ahead to hold elections into its regional parliament in disregard of federal opposition to it. When challenged, it overran federal military depots in its region and this led to federal onslaught on it which initially succeeded to a point leading to hundreds of thousands of refugees pouring into neighbouring Sudan as well as creating hundreds of thousands of internally displaced poor Tigrayans. Most of the people in Tigray are orthodox Christians. Because at the heart of Tigray is ancient Cush and Axum an area with thousands of years of history dating to before the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ. The federal forces were joined by forces from the Eritrean republic presenting a strange and unusual situation in which a neighbouring foreign country joins another country to levy war against a breakaway province. After suffering severe losses and wanton massacre of its people, the Tigrayans beat back both Federal Ethiopian forces and their Eritrean supporters who were apparently taking revenge on the Tigrayans who had fought them during their war with Ethiopia. It got to a point where the Tigrayans were at the gates of Addis Ababa with possible blood bath because Abiy Ahmed began to arm Ethiopians against the Tigrayans in what he called a patriotic war to save the country. Hundreds of thousands of Tigrayans living in Addis Ababa were arrested and interned or allegedly killed. This is where we are militarily and there has been intervention from the Western countries particularly the United States to mediate in the conflict. An African Union committee under former president Olusegun Obasanjo has mediated without success. There is obviously no military solution to the problem because none of the combatants can win a clear victory. The country is in a strategic place in Africa close to the tinderbox of the Middle East and before one knows it, there will be foreign war merchants ready to sell weapons and to assist the two sides leading to much suffering of the poor people and destruction of ancient historic sites in the country. Africa has kept quiet watching from the sidelines when, if the spirit of NEPAD (New Partnership for African Development) we’re still alive, there ought to have been sent to Ethiopia before things got to this point an APRM (African Peer Review Mechanism) to warn the government of Ethiopia of the need to handle the situation with care rather than waiting for war to break out before constituting the Obasanjo Committee. Certainly the spirit of NEPAD should be kept alive by the AU Commission. It should not die with the exit from office of Olusegun Obasanjo and Thabo Mbeki! The complexity of the Ethiopian problem needs to be tackled by friends of the country in Africa and we should not wait for the USA threatening to impose sanctions and cut off aid from the country before serious efforts to find a solution are put in place. African leaders should begin to take pre-crisis intervention measures in the continent before actual crisis ensues. If this had been done earlier on, we probably would not have had the military incursions in government in Mali, Burkina Faso and Guinea where leaders in the sub region watched a deteriorating situation without intervention until it exploded in predictable coup d’état. The spirit of self-examination that was embraced by the idea of APRM was to nip in the bud crisis before flowering into reality. It is not too late for an extraordinary meeting of the African Union to be summoned to Addis Ababa to impress on the government of Ethiopia that the AU cannot continue to be headquartered in a war-torn country and that a government of national unity must be formed to save the country and Africa from embarrassment.