Grammy-award winner Burna Boy has become the first-ever African artiste to hit 200 million streams on Africa’s Number one music streaming platform, Boomplay. Boomplay streams are calculated based on industry-recognised standards in which only no less than thirty-second stream is equal to one stream count. Barely a year after Burna Boy was celebrated as the first artiste to hit the 100 million streams milestone on Boomplay, he has gone ahead to double the feat, making him the first artiste to be streamed 200 million times on Boomplay. The growth of the Grammy Award winner has been exponentially upturned since the release of the ‘Outside’ album, which stands as 10 million streams. His follow-up album, African Giant, which was critically acclaimed and nominated for the Grammys, has over 43 million streams, four times more than the previous body of work, indicating his broadening fanbase and growth.   2Baba, wife to star in Netflix first all-African reality…     Abba Kyari’s arrest: Obi Cubana trends on Twitter     Not every female clubber is broke, man-hunting – Pretty Mike   - Advertisement - True to its title, his 2020 album Twice as tall has been streamed twice more than African Giant, standing at over 80 million streams on Boomplay. Director of Artist & Media Relations Boomplay, Tosin Sorinola, who presented a plaque in recognition of this feat to the Afrofusion musician in Lagos, said this was an epochal moment in the history of the African music market. She said: “This is another iconic feat for Burna Boy, Boomplay and the entire African music industry. This achievement shows that fans in Africa are fast catching up to the digitization of music and streaming, which Boomplay is championing. “With this development, artists can earn even more on our platform. Burna Boy is a massively talented singer whose works will continue to affect people positively across Africa and the rest of the world. “We are proud of what he is doing and his milestone achievements on Boomplay; to this effect, we, at Boomplay, present this plaque to him in special recognition of his contributions so far in the industry and are looking forward to even more extraordinary achievements.” SPONSORED