The International Credit Rating Agency, Global Credit Rating Limited (GCR), has, in its recent rating carried out in 2021, confirmed Sovereign Trust Insurance Plc (STI) as an A rated underwriting firm in the insurance sector. STI’s Head of Corporate Communications and Brand Management, Segun Bankole in a statement said before now, STI was rated A- due to its high claims paying ability, among other requisite considerations, for the rating. The rationale behind the rating from A-to A, according to GCR, is based on the company’s renewed financial position and stable outlook from a statutory solvency perspective in the last three years. It will be recalled that the underwriting firm in 2019 increased its shareholders’ funds from N4.1 billion to N5.6 billion through the rights issue that was carried out in that year, in line with the capitalisation agenda of the company in wanting to occupy a leadership position in the insurance sector in Nigeria.   CIIN President gets honorary doctorate     ‘Cyber perils, political risks, violence top business risks’     How govt can reduce budget deficit, by expert   The agency said the company’s solvency margin improved remarkably, and it is very much in compliance with the proposed regulatory capital requirement for the industry. - Advertisement - The report further stated: “Despite the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on businesses and the fallout of the nationwide protest in Financial Year (FY) 2020, the impact on underwriting performance was well absorbed by an improvement in the insurer’s scale efficiencies, with operating expense ratio registered at 37.0 per cent in FY20 against the 53.19 per cent that was recorded in FY19.” Also, investment income maintained an upward trajectory over the review period, thereby supporting return on revenue at 10.5 per cent in FY20 as against 8.5 per cent recorded in FY19. GCR expects STI’s liquidity metrics to remain sound on the back of conservative asset allocation and the planned additional capital injection. STI has a strong direct business generation capacity, which has over time stimulated retail segment penetration. The premium mix is considered well diversified and can still be improved upon in the years ahead. SPONSORED