The General-Secretary of the National Progressives Councilors’ Forum of Nigeria (NPCFN), an umbrella body for councillors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) across the country, Kazeem Abayomi, said the party has embarked on a rebuilding process to reposition it ahead of next year’s general elections. Abayomi, who was among the 25 executive members of the NPCFN sworn-in Abuja recently, said the establishment of the forum was conceived to boost the perception of the party across the country. The secretary-general who spoke to reporters in Lagos said councillors are the closest link to the people at the grassroots and are very important when it comes to mobilisation of the electorates in a democracy. He said: “In most cases, the people have direct contact with us, more than any other group within the political space. “We want to give the party a new face, a new perception in the eyes of the people at the grassroots. We want to create a bottom-to-top approach to communication, rather than the top-to-bottom approach that we have witnessed in the past. This will give the party a new mentality and a new ideology. The forum will also unite the party across the country towards the next general elections and beyond. Irrespective of tribe, religion or geo-political zone, we want to carry everybody along.” Abayomi who represents Mafoluku-Oshodi Ward D3, in Lagos State, said the idea is to use the body to mobilise the electorates at the grassroots to support the party in next year’s election and beyond. He said: “Part of our agenda is to mobilise more Nigerians to join our party in our respective constituencies. This will help the party not only during the next general elections but also in future elections in the country. What we are doing will attract new members to the party.   Day Adeola empowered Lagos West constituents     Ekiti APC and challenge of reconciliation     Ex-APC Reps hail CECPC for confirming lawmakers as…   - Advertisement - “The approval for the formation of this body was given by the National Caretaker Committee Chairman, Mai Mala Buni, who is also the governor of Yobe State. The directive was that we are going to work in accordance with the party’s needs. So, most of our activities will be in accordance with the party’s directives. This will help us to gain support for the party at the grassroots.” He believes the forthcoming APC national convention will be successful, even though the party waited for too long for the convention. His words: “It is better late than never and at the end of the day, a successful national convention will be a boost for the party. Internal wrangling is normal in organized groups in any democracy. What matters is how such wrangling is handled. We are lucky that the party is being guided by capable hands, led by Governor Buni. So far, so good; he has given the party a boost ahead of next year’s general elections. Come February 26, all aggrieved members will laugh and resolve to continue to support the party.” The lawmaker gave kudos to the Chairman, Oshodi/Isolo Local Government, Otunba Kehinde Al-Moroof Oloyede for his encouragement and his giant strides in the council. He said: “I will like to give kudos to the indefatigable chairman of Oshodi/Isolo Local Government, Otunba Kehinde Al-Moroof Oloyede, popularly known as Kendoo for his support and for his giant strides in development within the council.” The National Progressives Councilors’ Forum of Nigeria, he said, came into being with the inauguration of its 25 executive members at the APC secretariat in Abuja on Saturday, February 5, 2022. He said: “It was indeed a day to remember.” The chairman of the forum is Musiliu Yusuf from Kano State. Kogi State’s Governor Yahaya Bello, according to Abayomi, was one of the dignitaries that graced the occasion. He added: “He was accompanied by the Deputy Chief Whip of the Kogi State House Assembly, Mukhtar Bajeh.”   SPONSORED