Recently, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State approved the rehabilitation of 25 roads across the state amounting to 200 kilometres. Toba Adedeji, who joined the state executives to inspect the roads, reports. As he walked around assessing the state of the project, ascending and descending the overpass in the company of cabinet members and political associates, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola was not shy to communicate his satisfaction with how the project lived up to its promise of being iconic. But even his excitement at the progress made in less than one year on the Olaiya Flyover did not becloud Oyetola’s desire to fix more roads. Senator Ajibola Bashiru, the spokesperson of the Nigerian Senate, representing Osun Central Senatorial district, during that inspection, lauded Oyetola for his intervention on critical roads that function as arteries in the State. So, after years of neglect which had plunged Osun into an unbelievable infrastructural deficit, Oyetola swung into action to reverse the citizens’ nightmares and the setback Osun’s economy has had to endure over the years. Moro-Yakoyo-Ipetumodu-Asipa-Ife road received life after 45 years of neglect. Ada-Igbajo road got fixed after about 33 years of abandonment. Residents of the Akindeko-Awosuru-Alekuwodo area have reasons to celebrate again because of the reconstruction of the network of (five) roads after about 32 years. Osogbo-Kelebe-Iragbiji axis can no longer be called a waste place, thanks to Oyetola. The 20km Ejigbo-Ara Junction-Ede road also earned its place among former death traps that have now been reconstructed after decades of ruin. These are different from several other township roads that Oyetola’s administration has either constructed, reconstructed or rehabilitated in the last three years across the nine federal constituencies in the State. Through his commitment, Oyetola has continued to open up the hinterland for development, connecting both urban and rural roads to aid business opportunities, and giving a great proportion of oxygen to Osun’s development agenda. - Advertisement - Mumuni Ayanfe, a transporter in the Lameco-Ifon road axis, described the road as one abundantly blessed with economic fortunes but has failed to yield its strength to individuals and even the State because of its poor state. His lamentation was corroborated by Kazeem Olawale, a resident, who spoke about the bad state of the road and the joy of seeing the Osun government wading in to alleviate the suffering of the people. Special Adviser to Governor Oyetola on Works and Transport, Engr. Hussein Olatoke Olaniyan, giving some background information about the federal road, said the federal government had made attempts to fix the road for about 20 years but hadn’t touched it at all in the last eight years. Several attempts by Osun to get the federal government’s intervention on the road was yet to yield any fruits, perhaps because of the huge infrastructural deficits across the nation calling for attention at the same time. Oyetola, a compassionate leader, not willing to watch his people suffer, directed that immediate action be taken on the road, putting the people ahead of bureaucratic protocols of reimbursement from the federal government. In his exact words, Olaniyan said: “whether the road belongs to the federal government or other tiers of government, the situation is placing a demand on the state government to intervene in good time in a bid to save the lives of its citizens and improve the social-economic situation. “For a long time now this road has been abandoned and the stretch that passes through the town divided Iwo into two. The governor thus directed that we should fix the bad portion of the road”. Like a box-to-box run on the soccer pitch, the tour changed direction from West to Central senatorial district, moving from Iwo to Ikirun-Iree-Otan-Ayegbaju, where residents and traders were full of praises to the government for coming to their rescue. Alaba Olatiloye, a trader at Obaagun recalled how terrible the road had been before the government moved to site. According to her: “It was very terrible especially for vehicular movement. The bad state of the road also took a toll on our businesses. For some of us selling edibles, we have had to contend with specks of dust settling on our wares, which make customers have a rethink about whether what they are buying from us is safe for consumption. Since yesterday that this intervention has gotten to the front of my shop, I have seen the difference. I say a big thanks to the Governor and pray God continues to help the government”.   Akwa-Ibom 2023: Emmanuel’s succession plan tears PDP…     Ekiti APC guber primaries: The claims, the law and the…     Ekiti 2022: Bamidele makes U-turn on challenging APC guber…   In Otan Ayegbaju, the road had practically broken into two because of the collapse of the culvert that runs across the road. The culvert has now been reconstructed and is stone-base and asphalt-ready. These were not the only roads the Osun governor ordered an intervention on. The total span is actually a whopping 200km, spread across the State, including the Lameco-Ifon road which had been abandoned for 15 years. According to Engr Olaniyan: “We have divided the state into six zones:  Ikirun/Ila, Iwo/Ejigbo, Ife/Ijesha, Osogbo/Ede and Gbongan/Ikire and others. We have spread the intervention across the nooks and crannies of the state. We will complete the project before the rainy season and that is why we are working day and night to ensure that all areas mapped out are completed.” The team on its way back to Abeere, the State Government Secretariat went through the Osogbo-Kelebe-Iragbiji road. Some township roads within Iragbiji were also being constructed. Interestingly, one of the 332 Primary Healthcare Centres that had been revitalised by Oyetola’s administration was standing by the side of the newly paved road. As far as residents of the area were concerned, qualitative healthcare isn’t only accessible by all, but to all. It was quite a long day, but Wednesday was another interesting episode, with the Nigerian Society of Engineers, Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria and other allied bodies, conducting an inspection of the Olaiya Flyover, commending Governor Adegboyega Oyetola afterwards for his adherence to standard and promotion of local content. A press conference soon followed, where the Special Adviser on Works and Transport, Engr Olatoke Olaniyan, and the Commissioner for Works and Transport, Engr Remi Omowaiye, gave a list of the other places where the critical intervention was ongoing. They include: Ife zone, having Ipetumodu-Ode-Omu road with a length of 5.83km, linking Ife North and Ayedaade Local Government Areas; and Ayetoro Street in Ifetedo, Ife-South Local Government with a length of 0.85km. In Ilesa Zone, the list is long: Wesley-Guild Hospital/ Oke-Iro road in Ilesa East Local Government Area with a length of 0.748km; School of Health Technology junction, Ilesa/Orogboji/ Ayegbaju/Iwikun/ lyinta/Iwara/Ifewara road, linking Ilesa East and Atakumosa West), covering a length of 8km; Ita-Akogun /Ita-Ofa/General Hospital road, Ilesa, in Ilesa West Local Government Area with a length of 2.85km; Iwara/Igangan Ayegunle/Olopon road in Atakumosa East Local Government Area with a length of 10.2km; Eti Oni/Esa-Oke road in Obokun Local Government Area with a length of 9.0km; Kajola/Oke Ibode/Prince Village /Okere oloja/Oke Osin/floba/Akola/Osu road in Atakumosa West Local Government Area, covering a length of 16.0 km. In Ikirun Zone: Asalu junction/Palace Oke Hla/Ikoro Ekiti road in Ifedayo Local Government Area, covering a length of 10km;  General Hospital/Aketi Oke Aloyin in Ila Local Government Area, covering 0.48km length of road; Ikirun-Iree-Ila road-36.0km cutting through Ifelodun/Boripe/ Boluwaduro Ila Local Government Areas; Idi Esu roundabout Ikirun/Iragbiji/ Ororuwo/Ada of 6.37km, covering Ifelodun and Boripe Local Government Areas; Ororuwo Palace road in Boripe Local Government Area of 0.124km; Orita Oke Amola, Ikirun/ Apostolic Church Iragbiji, covering 0.35km linking Ifelodun and Boripe Local Government Areas; Eekosin Inaja covering 7.5km length of the road, in Odo-Otin Local Government Area; Inisa-Iba road in Ifelodun Local Government Area covering a length of 2.25km, are receiving attention. Special Adviser on Works and Transport, Engr Olatoke Olaniyan noted that rehabilitation of these roads (200KM) will be done at the cost of N1billion, unlike the past administration that earmarked N1 billon for 1km. The beneficiaries in Osogbo Zone are: Osogbo /Boredun /Ibokun road, linking Osogbo, and Obokun Local Government Areas, covering 17.49km length of road; Testing Ground/Aderin/Powerline road, Osogbo with a length of 0.907km in Olorunda Local Government Area; CMS / Oluawo Oba/Kolawole Junction/Oluode – Orita Elelede/Owode Market/Almadiya junction roads, Osogbo in Olorunda Local Government Area, covering 2.145 km lenth of road; Obalende – Ojude Oga/ Oke Baale road, Osogbo in Osogbo Local Government Area with a length of 0.945km; Ojutu/Elerin Palace road in Irepodun Local Government Area, with a length of 1.752km In Iwo Zone, Odo-Ori/Adeke road in Iwo Local Government Area with a length of 5.460km; OSADEP Junction (Aawe/Oyo road) / Bowen University. Iwo Local Government Area, covering a length of 4.3km; Gbongan lleogbo /Iwo road linking Ayedaade/Ayedire and Iwo Local Government Areas, covering a length of 24.26km; and Ogbaagba/Ikire-Ile/Ajagunlase road in Olaoluwa Local Government Area with a length of 18km.     What was most pronounced from the tour and the briefing that followed the following day, which is instructive for the good people of Osun as the State glides towards the poll, is that in whatever Oyetola does, the welfare and wellbeing of citizens have always taken precedence. His compassion and empathy have defined the essence of his approach to governance. Osun is lucky to have a leader who is intentional about the general wellbeing of the people. SPONSORED