The Oluwo of Iwo land Abdulrasheed Akanbi has denied seeking financial assistance for marriage. The Nation reports a letter had gone viral on the internet where the monarch purportedly solicited money for his wedding to an unnamed Kano princess. The letter dated February 8, 2022 as seen by The Nation, addressed to Osun Governor Adegboyega Oyetola was reportedly received on his behalf by the office of Special Adviser on Chieftaincy Affairs. The letter read in parts: “I have the instruction of the His Imperial Majesty, Oba (Dr) Abdulrasheed Adewale Akanbi, the Oluwo of Iwo to notify you of Oluwo’s decision to marry a princess from Kano Emirate to be precise Ado Bayero Dynasty. “I wish to remind your Excellency that this kind of royal wedding within two notable traditional institutions in Nigeria will require huge expenses, which necessitate support of the state government financially even logistically.” - Advertisement - But a statement by the Press Secretary to the Palace, Alli Ibraheem, described the now-viral letter as fake.   Oluwo of Iwo sets to remarry, picks Kano Princess     Sen. Bamidele sheathes sword over APC Ekiti State’s…     VIDEO: Nigeria is safe, says tourist at Ikogosi waterfall   Ibraheem said: “We read with total dismay a letter purportedly said to emanate from the palace of Oluwo of Iwoland seeking financial assistance on his personal affairs, wedding. “While we commend the enlightened public for their sense of fair judgement, we want to categorically state it that the letter is fake and did not emanate from the palace of Oluwo. “The said letter lacks basic in-house styles of Oluwo’s palace correspondence. Oluwo always append his personal signature while writing the government. “Equally, the font in the letter is not our official style. At the said date on the letter, Oluwo was not in the state up till now. And his secretary has no audacity, whatsoever to sign on behalf of His Majesty while communicating with the government. “The letter was orchestrated by mischievous people whose mission is to discredit the palace. Marriage is a personal affairs. “There is no marriage venture too big for Oluwo to finance on his own. Those circulating such should exercise caution. Queen is coming but not in haste of the public demand. “We enjoin reasonable individual to get their facts before jumping on the bandwagon.”