The Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN), Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators (ICSAN), Association of Forensic Accounting Researchers (AFAR), Taxpayers’ Rights Initiative have opposed the proposed Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria  (ICAN) Amendment Bill presented to the House of Representatives Committee on Finance. The ICAN Act is a bill for an Act to amend the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria Act 1965, CAP. I11, LFN, 2004, was sponsored by Hon. Abubakar Yunusa Ahmad. It is also meant to address emerging trends in the Nigerian economic environment and for related matters (HB 1178)’ aimed at empowering the Institute to regulate its members to practice accounting and taxation, among other professions. The Bill has been described as an encroachment into the statutory obligations of other professional bodies. During the Public Hearing of the House of Representatives Committee on Finance, CITN Legal Adviser, Chukwuemeka Eze, cited the CITN Act No. 76 of 1992, which in its section 1 empowers the CITN to regulate and control the practice of taxation in all its ramifications.   BOS: A needless distraction     Picking Eguavoen’s brain on Eagles     We won’t allow Hijab in our school, Kwara CAN insists   - Advertisement - He said the ICAN Bill has brazenly included tax practice in section 21 (which introduces a new Section 15 to the Principal Act) of the ICAN  Bill that “a Chartered Accountant shall be entitled to practice or hold himself out to practice as an Auditor, a Reporting Accountant, Financial Accounting and Corporate Reporting Services Practitioner, Financial Management Practitioner, Corporate Services Practitioner, Governance Risk and Compliance Services Practitioner, Tax Practitioner….” Section 28 of the Bill (amending Section 19 of the Principal Act)  defines “Accountancy practice” as including “auditing, reporting accounting, investigations and forensic accounting, Financial Accounting and Corporate Reporting Services, Financial Management Services, Management Consultancy Services, Corporate Services, Governance Risk and Compliance Services, tax practice, accounting information systems practice, insolvency practice including receivership and liquidation, financial advisory”. Eze postulated that the proposed bill would be akin to having a dual regulator (a primary regulator, that is CITN and a secondary regulator, that is ICAN) to regulate taxation practice. This amounts to an aberration, which will cascade into legislative confusion. Eze disclosed that in the dispute between CITN and ICAN, CITN was victorious at the High Court, and Court of Appeal in 2007, ICAN eventually succeeded all the way till the parties entered into a tripartite Memorandum of Understanding on May 31, 2021.