The latest report by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), has shown that Lassa fever has killed 59 Nigerians since the beginning of the year (six weeks) in thirteen states of the country as of February 13, 2022. Furthermore, in one week (between February 7 to 13, 2022) eleven (11) people have been killed by the disease in five states – Ondo (five), Edo (two), Taraba (two) Bauchi (one) and Kogi (1). Also, nineteen (19) states have recorded at least one confirmed case of the diseases, with Ondo State having the highest number of confirmed cases and deaths at 115 and 20 respectively. Of all confirmed cases, 73 per cent are from Ondo (32 per cent), Edo (23 per cent) and Bauchi (18 per cent) States. According to the NCDC, the states with the disease burden are: Ondo, Edo, Bauchi, Benue, Taraba, Oyo, Ebonyi, Enugu, Kogi, Nasarawa, Plateau, Delta, Kaduna, Adamawa, Niger, Anambra, Katsina, FCT and Cross River. - Advertisement - According to a statement by the NCDC, “In week six, the number of new confirmed cases increased from 58 in week five, 2022 to 77 cases. These were reported from Ondo, Edo, Bauchi, Ebonyi, Taraba, Enugu, Benue, Kogi, Nasarawa, and Niger States and the FCT.   2023: Rumpus in Ebonyi over zoning arrangements     My lawyers studying situation for next line of action…     Zamfara SIEC Commissioner dies in motor accident   “Cumulatively, from week 1 to week 6, 2022, 59 deaths have been reported with a Case Fatality Rate (CFR) of 16.5 per cent which is lower than the CFR for the same period in 2021 (22.9 per cent). “In total for 2022, 19 states have recorded at least one confirmed case across 65 Local Government Areas. “The predominant age-group affected is 21-30 years (range: 1 to 80 years, median age: 30 years). The male to female ratio for confirmed cases is 1:0.8. The number of suspected cases has increased compared to that reported for the same period in 2021. “Seven (7) new healthcare workers affected from Bauchi, Ondo and Edo States in the reporting week. “National Lassa fever multi-partner, multi-sectoral Emergency Coordination Centre (EOC) activated to coordinate response activities at all levels.” To reduce the risk of the spread of Lassa fever, the NCDC offers the following advice: Ensure proper environmental sanitation – that is, keep your environment clean at all times, block all holes in your house to prevent rats from entry; Cover your dustbins and dispose of refuse properly. Communities should set up dumpsites very far from their homes to reduce the chances of having rodents within homes; Store foodstuff like rice, garri, beans, corn/maize, etc in containers that are well covered with tight-fitting lids. Others are – Avoid drying foodstuffs outside on the floor, roadside where they will be exposed to contamination; avoid bush burning which can lead to the displacement of rats from bushes to human dwellings; eliminate rats in homes and communities by setting rat traps and other means; practice good personal hygiene by frequent washing hands with soap under running water /or use of hand sanitisers when appropriate, and visit the nearest health facility if you notice any of the signs and symptoms of Lassa fever as mentioned earlier, and avoid self-medication. SPONSORED