A Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, has directed the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to stop all actions against former Imo State Governor Rochas Okorocha. Justice Stephen Pam gave the order yesterday while ruling on an application filed by Okorocha’s lawyer Ola Olanipekun (SAN). The lawyer had submitted that the EFCC was going against the judgment of the same court which, among others, ordered the commission to release the international passport and other travelling documents of the defendant. The refusal of the EFCC to obey the order compelled Okorocha to file the application for the enforcement of his human rights. Olanipekun, at the resumption of proceedings, reminded the court that it entered judgment in favour of Okorocha on December 6, 2021, but that the EFCC disobeyed it. - Advertisement - He told the court that the anti-graft commission refused to release Okorocha’s international passport and other travel documents, as if there was no judgment on the matter. The lawyer regretted that instead of complying with the order, the EFCC filed another charge on the same decided issue, describing it as contempt of court.   Igboho a prisoner of conscience, says lawyer     Fuel scarcity conspiracy to remove subsidy- Wabba     One dead, soldier shot as Gombe community boils again   But the lawyer to the EFCC, N. A. Dodo, told the court that he only received the application on Monday, pleading for time to respond to the processes. He said the EFCC was not disobeying the judgment of court, explaining that the commission called Okorocha to pick his passport and other travelling documents but that he had not responded. Justice Pam said he was not happy with the attitude of EFCC on the matter, stressing that he would not tolerate any contemptuous act against the court ruling. He said: “I take exception to disobedience. Your organisation (EFCC) should not do anything to the applicant until this matter is determined. “Once it’s an order, obey it. If you are not okay with the judgment, go and appeal it. Don’t allow the drama that took place in my court in the matter between Peter Odili and Nigeria Immigration Service to take place here.” The judge adjourned till February 14 for hearing, warning that all orders made by the court must be obeyed by the parties.