The recent death of Professor Babatunde Ogunnaike,former Dean, College of Engineering, University of Delaware, USA, who is one of the five authors of our national anthem reminds me of the interview I had with him in 2013 following the death of retired Deputy Commissioner of Police, Pa Benedict Odiase who all along had been credited with being the composer of the anthem. Odiase is indeed the composer of the music of the anthem, but not the lyrics. Professor Ogunaike, a fellow of the Nigerian Academy of Engineering and four others were the composers of the various lines of the anthem following a competition they participated in. When Dr Sota Omoigui, one of the other composers drew attention to this historical error in his condolence message for Pa Odiase, I also interviewed him and Pa P.O Aderibigbe. They commended Odiase, who had been given a national honour for his role in the making of the national anthem, but were unhappy that their contributions had remained unacknowledged officially as it should have been beyond just being told in the letter to them that parts of their lyrics were included in the anthem. The condolence message by President Muhamadu Buhari on Aderibigbe’s death suggests that his role and that of others are worth acknowledging while they are alive and not when they die. According to President Buhari, Aderibigbe’s significant contribution to the lines of the national anthem, showed his patriotism and dedication to the wellbeing of the nation in the living words that daily reinforce the faith and spirit of Nigerians. Aderibigbe would have loved to hear what Buhari and other past leaders of the country think of his contribution, but unfortunately he had to die to get a presidential acknowledgement for whatever it is worth. Hopefully, those still alive among the composers would someday be honored by the government and not when they die for a presidential condolence to be issued for them like Aderibigbe. I asked the late Professor if the country had been fair to the authors of the anthem by not honouring them with a national award like it did to the composer of the music, the late Pa Odiase.   Ban on use of generic emails     Unlawful airport harassments     Mental Health: Time To Talk   “Of course no” he replied, noting that it is unfair not to honour someone for such major contributions. What should be done about honouring you and other co-authors? He said he was not sure what should be done, but noted that most other nations acknowledge the authors of their national anthem in some way or other. “I have lived in the US now for about 25 years and everyone knows that Francis Scott Key wrote the lyrics to the national anthem (even I, a recent immigrant, know this). At the very least, the people of Nigeria should be told who wrote their national anthem,” he said. Why does he usually feel a sense of pride and sadness when he hears the national anthem as he stated in a previous interview? “A sense of pride to have been involved in writing the words, but sadness because 50-something years after independence we still have not realised even the very basic aspects of what a modern nation should be. That is sad.” Sad indeed that like one of the lines of the national anthem, the labour of our heroes past have largely been in vain. My condolence to the Aderibigbe’s family. May the soul of the Professor rest in peace.