It has been said by those who should know that the unrestrained public outburst during which recently tamed Rauf Aregbesola accused his mentor of deceit and pride, and solicited God’s intervention ‘to punish and dethrone him from his ‘peacock throne’ was borne out of frustration following his failed attempt to hijack the APC party structure, first in Lagos State and last week in Osun State. Of course, if a political party is a refuge of all manners of ‘selfish interest groups, owned by powerful investors made up of past, present and aspiring office holders, Aregbesola’s aspiration as a former governor cannot be said to be illegitimate. He also has the right to pursue his own political ambition like other Tinubu’s mentees are currently doing quietly. Aregbesola’s first folly however was that having reaped bountiful dividends as a two term governor and minister in the last seven years, riding on the back of someone who has always fought his battles, he no longer cares to know who controls the largest shares of APC in the Southwest. His second folly was his failure as “omoluabi” to assimilate the Yoruba ethos that frowns at attempt at pulling down a benefactor in order to achieve one’s political ambition.   He forgets the Yoruba adage that says “the pigeon does not eat and dine with the owner of the house only to deny deny the owner of the house in the days of adversity”. A true ‘omoluabi’ must be creative enough to navigate the narrow path between treachery and loyalty. Aregbesola , I am sure is current with our recent history. SLA Akintola, unlike Obafemi Awolowo, his principal who was a federalist, was a regionalist and an unrepentant Yoruba irredentist. But not even his argument about abuse of distributive politics and efforts at securing for the Yoruba their fair share of spoil of office then monopolised by Igbo and Hausa/Fulani could save him when Yoruba people who believed he sold his party leader to the north for a pot of porridge rose against him. It was the same story with the late Bola Ige who Pa Adesanya had accused of betrayal for joining Obasanjo and his PDP. But for that labelling, Yoruba would have been on fire following Ige’s assassination because Yoruba loved him without reservation. His third folly: Up to 2007, Aregbesola was an unknown Osun politician in diaspora. Unfortunately, he mistook the wild jubilations on the streets of Osun towns following his judicial victory after three and half years, the same way Mimiko and Fayemi’s judicial victories were celebrated in Ondo and Ekiti,  as a sign of personal approval  when in reality it was a rejection of reactionary politics and denunciation of any form of cheating by the Yoruba people. And finally, Aregbesola forgot that the Yoruba variant of democracy which frowned at imposition of leaders predates West’s introduction of their new value system to Africa. Leadership in Yoruba land which often comes from the back and not from the aristocratic class is earned. In the days of our fathers, even Obas were never imposed since the Ifa oracle hardly picked someone who did not enjoy the support of his people. Therefore trading an unpopular Moshood Adeoti, his secretary to government while in office with Gboyega Oyetola, the candidate of  a mentor who aided his ascension to  office could only have meant Aregbesola forgot where he was coming from. He also forgot he was once labelled enemy of Osun people by Oyinlola, its tyrannical ruler who once barred him from Osun State. He forgot that he only managed to escape with his life by the whiskers as bullets were rained on his car when he tried to defy Oyinlola’s ‘fatwa’. He forgot he was locked up like a common criminal for alleged forgery by an Inspector General of Police because of a police report tendered as exhibit by police officer in an open court.  Aregbesola forgot how from being a haunted man, he became a two-term governor.   Achieving Universal Health Coverage     Between Kyari’s suspension and travails     ASUU’s ‘Valentine’ strike   Let us remind him how the battle was fought and won. In what Emmanuel Oladosu, of The Nation described as ‘electoral terrorism’, Maurice Iwu’s Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had declared Olagunsoye Oyinlola winner of the April 14, 2007 gubernatorial election ‘despite evidence of rigging, multiple-voting, violence, flagrant violation of the electoral regulations and connivance between security agents and government functionaries.’ Retrieving stolen mandate from PDP was a tough battle. Speaking recently of their mentor’s courage and commitment to his mentees, Vice President Osinbajo regaled how Adrian Forty, a former fingerprint expert from Metropolitan Police Detective Training School, New Scotland, Yard, London with 37years experience almost fell off his chair laughing when told of the impossible number of ballot papers involved in the Aregbesola case. But undeterred by challenges, their mentor according to him, ferried Adrian Forty along with a team of 50 qualified fingerprint experts who had been trained in England, 48 of whom were serving in the United Kingdom Police as civilian fingerprint experts to Nigeria to join a team of software engineers led by Tunde Yadeka for the arduous task. Adrian Forty’s team examined a total of 224,695 ballot papers, out of which 93,088 had multiple votes, representing 41.43 per cent of the ballot papers used for the conduct of the election. ”This enabled the experts to draw an inference to the effect that 83,463 ballot papers used during the April 14, 2007 governorship election in Osun State in the 10 local governments were balloting papers that were not supplied by INEC officially”. But Justice Thomas Naron’s tribunal rejected exhibits brought to court and Aregbesola lost. His team of lawyers led by former Attorney General and Minister for Justice, Chief Akinlolu Olujimi (SAN) thereafter appealed insisting Aregbesola wanted the result of elections in 10 local government areas of the state cancelled, while Oyinlola wants the appeal of Aregbesola dismissed allegedly for lack of merit. But the appeal court which found no justification  for Justice Naron’s rejection of exhibits ordered a retrial which again went back to the appeal court that finally sacked Oyinlola after three and half years of illegal occupation of Osun’s Governor’s Lodge. When Aregbesola was sworn into office on Saturday, November 27, 2010, he spoke of “reawakening of Obafemi Awolowo’s philosophy of service promising to “promote functional education and enhance communal peace and progress, banish poverty, hunger, and unemployment”.  Those promises were met in default. His years in office were characterized by divisive issues of religion, merger of schools and several months of unpaid salaries of teachers, health workers and the judiciary. I am not sure Aregbesola has the moral right to railroad Gboyega Oyetola to follow what he considers a legacy of failure. As Minister for Interior, Aregbesola has spent the greater part of six years playing Osun politics while the nation is under siege of Boko Haram insurgents, immigrant Fulani herdsmen and bandits that today operate unchallenged in most parts of the northwest of the country. Let me however state that this is not an inquisition but a journey through memory to remind Aregbesola of his humble beginning. In any case, it is Tinubu and Tinubu alone who knows how to fight his own political battles. Anyone who tries to come between him and his mentees or even his political foes may at the end get his finger burnt. Those who abuse him during the day crawl to his bedroom in the night. Those the press labelled treacherous yesterday are today with him in the trenches for the battle of 2023.