Cameroonian former professional football striker and all-time top goal-scorer for Indomitable Lions watched Chelsea and Senegal goalkeeper keenly during the last Africa Cup of Nations and all he could do is to marvel at the quality of the player.   Mendy has been on top of his act in the past 18 months helping Senegal capture the African Cup and Chelsea; the Champions League and lately the World Club Cup. And for Cameroon legend, Patrick Mboma, the Lion is without appeal, the best. Mendy is undoubtedly the best goalkeeper of the moment in the world according to Mboma. Speaking shortly after Mendy picked the AFCON Golden Gloves award, the former Cameroonian international said Mendy, who is also the best goalkeeper in the world according to FIFA, possess exceptional prowess which naturally makes him the best. “I think today the titles help put him in the lead. But I look at his own performances, his intrinsic performances which are interesting. So he doesn’t strike me as a Buffon over the whole of his career, he doesn’t have the same career path of course. But, since he took his place at Chelsea and until last week when he won the AFCON, I see a monster and I don’t see a goalkeeper. No goalkeeper, today, has been at Mendy’s level at least for the past 18 months . So I think Mendy is the best goalkeeper in the world,” said the Cameroonian.   SADIO MANÉ: My dream is to win all the trophies     Oshoala’s depressive tweet worries relatives, kinsmen      EPL: Tottenham beat Man City 3 – 2   Shortly after winning the AFCON trophy, Mendy said: “It’s a source of pride for me to have won Senegal’s first AFCON” - Advertisement - Before the Club World Cup final, the Senegalese goalkeeper was interviewed by Chelsea media. He spoke of the triumph at CAN 2021. On Saturday, he added the Club World Championship title with Chelsea after a 2-1 victory against Palmeiras. This, a few days after the historic coronation of Senegal in the African Cup. On his return to the club, he returned to this triumph in an interview with the official website of the Blues. “I can’t describe how I feel, it’s an incredible achievement for me, my partners, our families and for our country. It is a source of pride for me to have won Senegal’s first CAN ,” said the 29-year-old, who also spoke of the huge welcome they received in Senegal. “We had never seen that with my teammates, it was incredible. We stayed on the trophy bus for 7 hours with a million fans on the streets of Senegal! I was very happy to see whole families come to celebrate with us,” he continued. SPONSORED