As the 2023 presidential election draws nearer, a fresh crisis is brewing in the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of it presidential primary election later in the year, reports Assistant Editor, ‘Dare Odufowokan. GOVERNORS elected on the platform of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and other presidential aspirants of the party, are currently at war over the mode of primary election that should be used to nominate the party’s presidential candidate for the next presidential election. Following the amendment of the Electoral Bill by the National Assembly, political parties can now choose among direct primary, indirect primary and consensus to elect their flag-bearers. The President in December vetoed the Bill, leading to a fresh amendment of the Bill by the National Assembly. The Clerk to the National Assembly, Arch. Olatunde Amos Ojo, on Monday, transmitted the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill to President Muhammadu Buhari for assent, according to reports. Many Nigerians are optimistic that the amended bill will be signed into law by President Buhari in the coming days. Reliable sources within the opposition party told The Nation that with the PDP seemingly ready to ignore its zoning arrangement ahead of 2023, presidential gladiators within the party are now busying themselves with influencing decisions on the mode of primary that should be adopted in deciding the party’s presidential candidate. Former Vice President and 2019 Presidential candidate of the party, Atiku Abubakar, his running mate in the 2019 election and former Anambra governor, Peter Obi, Sokoto state governor, Aminu Tambuwal, his Bauchi State counterpart, Bala Mohammed, immediate past Senate President, Bukola Saraki and former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Senator Anyim Pius Anyim, among others, have all decided to vie for the sole ticket of the opposition party for the 2023 presidential election. - Advertisement - The party, it appears, may have decided to throw the contest for the ticket open for all contenders irrespective of their zones of origin. Deputy National Publicity Secretary of PDP, Abdullahi Ibrahim, during the week, said the party will give equal opportunity for all the geopolitical zones in the struggle for the party’s presidential ticket. “The new National Working Committee (NWC) under the leadership of Senator Iyorchia Ayu has already resolved this is exactly what it would pursue as an objective in ensuring that the six geopolitical zones of Nigeria were given equal opportunity to bid for the available offices to rescue and rebuild Nigeria,” Ibrahim said while receiving the report from a group on behalf of the national chairman. When asked categorically if his statement should be interpreted to mean that the contest for the presidential ticket would be thrown open by the party, he responded, “Of course!”  “Yes, that is what it implies. As we speak, every Nigerian is bidding from the South-east, from the South-west, and from the North. No section of Nigeria will be denied an opportunity to contest or aspire. It is left for Nigerians to decide where they want to allow the presidency to go,” he added.   Subtle war Meanwhile, The Nation learnt that following an alleged plot by members of the PDP Governors Forum to ensure that the two presidential flag-bearers of the party emerges from their midst, the forum is pushing for the adoption of the indirect mode of primary election. This move is said not to have gone down well with other presidential aspirants like former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, Bukola Saraki and Anyim Pius Anyim, among others. Consequently, a subtle war of wits has broken out between the two groups as the party plans for its presidential primary election later in the year. Party sources revealed that the governors, banking on their control of special delegates, largely made up of elected office holders and political appointees in the various states, are urging the National Working Committee (NWC) under the leadership of Senator Iyorchia Ayu, to adopt and announce indirect primary as the mode to be adopted. “You quite understand that following the emergence of the new NWC after the leadership crisis that threatened the very existence of the PDP, the governors emerged as a very formidable force within the party. They have further cemented their unity and have taken firm decisions ahead of the next general elections. It is on the strength of their unity that they are hoping to corner the presidential and Vice presidential tickets of the PDP ahead of other aspirants in the party. “To achieve this, they plan to repeat the dear they displayed at the December convention by collectively pooling the delegates from their various states to outnumber other aspirants. That is why they are clamouring and working hard for indirect primary to be adopted,” a source, an immediate past National Vice chairman of the party, told our correspondent on condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, The Nation gathered that Atiku and other presidential aspirants of the PDP, not wanting to be caught napping in the game of politics by the governors, are also not leaving any stone unturned in their opposition and rejection of the indirect mode of primary election favoured by the governor. “As we speak, several presentations have been made to the NWC, the Board of Trustees (BoT) and other organs of the party by some PDP presidential aspirants in opposition to the indirect primary mode. The other aspirants and their backers appear to be united too on the need to ensure that the governors do not use their control of special delegates to corner the tickets.   FPSO fire: Three crew members alive, seven missing –…     Akeredolu calls for partnership in education development     Constitution amendment: NASS splits Minister of Justice from…   “Party leaders from states where the PDP is not in power are also unconvinced on the choice of indirect primary. The fear that such state will go to the convention with less number of delegates than PDP state is heitening by the day, increasing the resistance to the indirect primary, a senior zonal party official in the southwest told our correspondent in Lagos on Friday. Anti-indirect primary forces within the party are also using the information to curry opposition to the governors’ plan. But the governors are said to be confident that they can pull through their preference for indirect primary. Consequently, various nominees and allies of the governors in the NWC are said to have been detailed to throw their weight behind indirect primary once the decision of the mode of primary is to be made. More and more PDP governors are confirming their interest in the party’s presidential ticket. Governor Tambuwal on Monday formally expressed his desire to join the 2023 presidential race during the state PDP stakeholders’ meeting, saying the decision is in respect of some of his political history. “Now, we are here and I have listened to party leaders, women, youth and members of the PDP in Sokoto State on the call that I should initiate and begin the process of consultation. “This is with a view to running and contesting first as flag bearer of the PDP and if God Almighty blesses our effort, subsequently the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. In the name of God Almighty, the most beneficent, the most merciful, I hereby accept to begin the process of consultation to run for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” he said. Read Also: 2023: Don’t use thugs, they will turn against you after elections, Bishop advises politicians This was just before Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, on Tuesday, said he does not think anyone is more qualified than him to be president in 2023. “I don’t even know if you want to talk about the presidency. For someone of my kind and my record as a governor and as a minister, I don’t see anybody who will tell me that he is much more qualified than me,” he said while warning some party members campaigning for a particular candidate to watch their utterances. Meanwhile, Obi has given the condition on which he would join the 2023 presidential election contest. According to the former governor, he will wait on the decision of PDP before he declares his intention. “I believe that the party owes it a duty to say what their stand is. If their stand today is South, be rest assured I am aspiring, if they say North, I can’t do otherwise or they chose the option that everybody is free, then, of course, you will be hearing from me,” he said.   Intense lobbying However, reliable sources within the party told The Nation that Senator Ayu may have decided to play safe in the midst of the ongoing intrigues. “He wants to be seen as been as fair as possible in the midst of the clamours. As at today, I can tell you he intends to leave the decision on mode of primary to the National Executive Council (NEC). He has so far resisted pressure on him to endorse one overtly or covertly. Instead, he has told some stakeholders who sought his opinion on the matter that he will convene a NEC meeting to discuss and conclude on the matter,” a close associate of the National Chairman squealed. With the debate on the mode of primary election likely to go to NEC for to be decided, anti and pro indirect primary agitators are said to have commenced serious lobbying of members of the PDP NEC. “Members of the BoT, state chairmen and NASS members who are likely to be involved in the decision making are now the beautiful brides of the gladiators. Both parties are trying to win the support of these people especially those from states where the PDP is not in government. “The governors are trying to use their collectivity and influence to rein the party in a particular direction that favours them, but the other groups too are not giving up. The situation in PDP is precarious because the party has only 13 states under it’s governors. Twenty three states are up for grab by any of the aspirants who can get the leadership of the PDP in those states and other prominent party chieftains on his side. The battle for those states have commenced as the decision on the mode of primary is to be made,” Comrade Tade Olusakin, Southwest Coordinator of the PDP Youth Volunteers Forum (PYVF) said. Olusakin also added that there are ongoing efforts by governors of the party to take control of the party structures at the zonal level. This, he claimed is bringing them into confrontation with party leaders and aspirants who had been in charge of the structures in some non-PDP states. “A good exame is the unending war between Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo state and the Ayo Fayose group. It is Makindes attempt to take charge of the states in the southwest through the zonal leadership that is being resisted by the likes of Ayo Fayose who had kept the PDP alive in Ekiti, Ladi Adebutu in Ogun and Demola Adeleke in Osun,” he said. A party source told our correspondent that PDP governors at a recent meeting resolved to oppose any plan by the leadership of the party to adopt direct primary. Accordingly, the governors plan to impress it on the Ayu-led NWC that the PDP cannot fund direct primary in all the states of the Federation, especially in states where the party is not in government. “And with the NWC and other organs of the party depending on the few PDP governors for financial survival, it will be difficult for Ayu and his team to argue much with the people.who would be expected to fund the exercise,” our source added. If everything goes according to plan, senator Ayu is expected to summon a NEC meeting to discuss the mode of primary to be adopted, and other related issues in a matter of weeks. “It is only left for the NEC to meet and agree on the need to summon a NEC. Once that is done, the meeting of the highest organ of the party’s leadership will be convened so all these matters can be addressed,” our source added.