Businessman Obi Cubana has recalled his convocation at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka in 1991. The popular businessman, in an Instagram post, revealed it wasn’t all rosy for him at first as he also had to struggle like every other person during his varsity days. He recalled how he and some friends decided to save cost by securing tickets for attachment in a luxurious bus travelling at night en route Area 1Garki Abuja to Dumez near Suleja. He highlighted all the discomfort they had to endure as they travelled on the night bus. He wrote: “Guys!!! 1999, we were going to the University of Nigeria, Nsukka for our convocation ceremony from Abuja, in the company of some of my friends and classmates; Nze, Ultimate, Onwa, Ogali, etc!!! “We entered bus from Area 1Garki Abuja to Dumez, near Suleja so we could enter cheaper “night bus” instead of boarding from Jabi Park!   NDLEA picks up Marlian music acts as Naira Marley reacts     Thugs imported to disrupt Osun PDP primary, Davido alleges     What I’ll do to any woman that comes close to my ‘property’…   “We got tickets for Mercedes Benz 1414 commuter vehicle, attachment!” For graduating with a very good result, he said: “My Uncle, Zubby, bought me a pair of “Schooles” shoes, having made him proud by making a 2:1 in Political Science department!” However, the nightlife boss noted he lost a pair from his prized “Schooles” shoes he was gifted a loss which almost ruined his convocation ceremony. Obi Cubana continued: “Inside the 1414 Benz bus, there was ZERO comfort, especially “attachment”! U dared not sleep cos if u happened to rest your head on the shoulder of a trader that had “full seat”…. …..na slap or punch, depending on mindset!! “We managed to get to Obollo Afor in the morning, where we would now take a bus into Nsukka. Getting to where we contributed money to stay for the entire Convocation, I realised I lost one leg of the pair of my adored and priceless “schooles” shoes. “It almost ruined my Convocation!!! But today, here we are!!! Do people still enter “night bus?” The father of four capped up his narration as he noted this generation is definitely advantaged. He wrote: “Las las, this generation dey enjoy!!!”