The Clerk to the National Assembly, Olatunde Amos Ojo, yesterday transmitted the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill to President Muhammadu Buhari for assent. The Nation had reported that Bill was due to be delivered to the President yesterday. Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate), Senator Babajide Omoworare, confirmed that President Buhari has received the Bill. Omoworare, in a statement titled: Transmission of Electoral Bill 2022, said: “The Clerk to the National Assembly Mr. Olatunde Amos Ojo has transmitted the authenticated copies of the Electoral Bill 2022 to President Muhammadu Buhari on 31st January 2022. “This was done in accordance with the provisions of Section 58 (3) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) and the Acts Authentication Act Cap. A2 LFN 2004. - Advertisement - “Mr. President had withheld assent to the Electoral Bill 2021 transmitted to him on 19th November 2021. “The Electoral Bill was thereafter reworked by the National Assembly and both the Senate and the House of Representatives passed same on 25th January 2022.”   Agitation for Biafra beyond Kanu, says IPOB     Revenue generating agencies get N3tr target     Why APC is in crisis, by Buni, Reconciliation Panel   President Buhari had cited restriction of political parties to the direct mode of primary as the sole reason for withholding assent. The National Assembly reintroduced direct, indirect and consensus modes of primaries into the Bill. It, however, gave tough conditions to be met before the consensus option can be used by political parties. One of the conditions is that all aspirants must admit in writing that they have agreed or disagreed with the party’s choice using consensus. Otherwise, parties are to revert to either the direct or indirect mode of primary, if one aspirants dissents. It is, however, uncertain whether the President would assent to the Bill this time around. This followed a report that governors are not happy with the new amendments and therefore plan to prevail on the President not to sign it. The Governors are said to have objected to a new insertion into the Bill by the National Assembly which makes it mandatory for serving political office holders to resign their appointments before vying for any elective office.