Even before President Muhammadu Buhari signed the landmark African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) Agreement on July 7, 2019, after 16 months of foot-dragging, experts in international trade and diplomacy had tipped Nigeria as the biggest potential beneficiary of the trade liberalisation deal. This was on the strength of Nigeria’s nearly 200 million population and huge market for trade. Indeed, Nigeria, as the single largest market in Africa, is said to stand the chance of gaining a lot from increasing access to its goods and services to a wider African market. Also, the opportunity of up-scaling her manufacturing sector and possibly, taking over from China as the global manufacturing hub is another potential benefit too glaring to ignore under the AfCFTA. The AfCFTA was adopted by the 18th Ordinary Session of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the African Union (AU) in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, in January 2012. It seeks to create the world’s largest free trade area; one that integrates 1.3 billion people across 54 African countries, with the objective of tapping into a combined Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of over $3 trillion. Seen as an opportunity to remake African economies, the AfCFTA, fundamentally, will put African economies-and African citizens-on a better economic footing. It will enhance competitiveness and stimulate investment, innovation, and economic growth by increasing efficiency and eliminating barriers to trade. - Advertisement - The agreement commits countries to removing tariffs on 90 per cent of goods and incrementally apply the same to services. And the removal of tariffs on goods in particular is projected to increase the value of intra-African trade by 15 to 25 per cent by 2040. This would translate to between $50 billion and $70 billion in value. The operational phase of the continental trade deal was earlier scheduled to start officially on July 1, 2020, but was delayed by six months due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and its restrictive measures, which came at a time the AfCFTA was in its critical phase of implementation.   Containment measures such as border closure, travel bans, and in some cases, total or partial lockdowns, enforced by most African countries, including Nigeria, to curb the spread of the deadly virus directly impacted on economic integration and intra-African trade, which are at the core of the free trade deal. Accordingly, commercial trading under the AfCFTA commenced on January 1, 2021. One year down the line, how has Nigeria fared? Is Africa’s most populous and largest market on course in maximising the opportunities promised by the AfCFTA? The agreement, admittedly, potentially cleared the coast for Nigeria’s competitiveness in continental and international trade while vigorously driving her economic diversification and industrialisation agenda. But how has the private sector strategically positioned itself to seize the opportunities promised by the AfCFTA? These questions have become imperative particularly considering the initial doubts, controversies and uncertainties over whether or not Nigeria should sign the treaty. This was why, for instance, it took Nigeria’s president 16 months of foot-dragging to sign the document, during which the Federal Government said it needed to consider the deal and country-wide sensitisation and consultation of stakeholders. The delay in signing the deal came after members of the Organised Private Sector (OPS), particularly manufacturers, opposed the move. They had warned the Federal Government not to sign the policy document as doing so, according to them, would cripple the economy and leave more Nigerians unemployed. Many of them expressed fears that the deal will be injurious to the nation’s industrial sector and the economy. They argued, for instance, that the agreement would turn Nigeria into a dumping ground for imported foreign goods. They insisted that the likely negative impacts of the AfCFTA on private businesses and the economy far outweigh its supposed benefits.   However, proponents of the free trade deal had kicked their heels in, insisting that AfCFTA – the world’s largest free trade area since the creation of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) in 1994 – will boost intra-African trade by about 60 per cent by 2022. Currently, intra-African trade is abysmally low, standing at just 16 per cent of the continent’s total trade, compared with 19 per cent in Latin America, 51 per cent in Asia, 54 per cent in North America and 70 per cent in Europe. However, one year into the implementation of the AfCFTA, the initial feeling of uncertainty and dilly-dallying concerning Nigeria joining the new economic bloc, The Nation learnt, appear to have given way to optimism that Nigeria will eventually rise to the occasion and lead the charge to remake her economy and by extension, the African economies by leveraging the AfCFTA. For instance, renowned diplomat and Director-General of National Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Ambassador Ayo Olukanni, expressed optimism that given Nigeria’s readiness and preparedness, the country can effectively compete under the AfCFTA as some of her manufacturers have shown. “Some Nigerian banks are also gradually making inroads and in fact, being invited to commence operations in some African countries,” Olukanni told The Nation, pointing out, however, that continuous preparations are the key strategic options now in readiness when the momentum and condition for trading increase. The Second Deputy President of NACCIMA, Jani Ibrahim, also shares in Olukanni’s optimism. “We have the capacity, we have the people, we have the products, and if you notice, a lot of Nigerian products are beginning to find their way in other African countries,” he said. Apparently encouraged by the aggressive sensitisation of private sector operators across the country in collaboration with the public sector, Ibrahim told The Nation that Nigeria is so prepared for trading to the extent that other state parties to the trade deal are beginning to get worried about what Nigeria can do.   2023: Ogoni monarchs pledge support for Abe, Tinubu     APC as sick baby     Leave Makinde alone, let’s focus on coming election,…   “Our members are being sensitised.We are working with the National Action Committee on AfCFTA, and NACCIMA is a frontline member of that committee. Sensitisation programmes are being carried out across the country with the Committee. “NACCIMA is also closely working with the Nigerian Export Promotions Council (NEPC) to develop our members for export so that our products will meet international standards; so that when their products go out of the country, they will be accepted,” Ibrahim said The NACCIMA boss added that one major thing that Nigeria has been able to achieve, working with other African countries and relevant institutions, in one year of trading under the AfCFTA, was the recent launch of the Pan-African Payment and Settlement System (PAPSS) about a fortnight, to help resolve the major issue of dollarisation and dollar availability among African countries. “The African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank), working with the AfCFTA and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to come up with the PAPSS where if you, as a Nigerian exporter, sends goods to Ghana, you will be paid locally in Naira; the other person does not need to go and be looking for dollar to pay you. In the same way, a company will not go and be looking for Dollar in order to carry out a transaction,” he explained. Launched in January, this year, in Accra, Ghana, PAPSS, which was developed by Afreximbank, is expected to boost intra-African trade by transforming and facilitating payment, clearing and settlement for cross-border trade across Africa. PAPSS will enable a customer in one African country to pay in his own currency, while a seller in another country receives payment also in his own currency. At the unveiling of the payment platform, AfCFTA Secretary-General Wamkele Mene stated that the PAPSS is expected to boost intra-African trade and save the continent $5 billion yearly in payment transaction costs, while also playing an increasingly significant role in accelerating the continent’s transactions underpinning the operationalisation of the AfCFTA. The President and Chairman, AFREXIMBANK, Prof. Benedict Oramah, said: “We are eager to build upon the AfCFTA’s creation of a single market throughout Africa, and PAPSS provides the state-of-the-art financial market infrastructure connecting African markets to one another thereby enabling instant cross-border payments in respective local African currencies for cross-border trade.” The Nation learnt that Afreximbank, as the main Settlement Agent for PAPSS, will provide settlement guarantees on the payment system and overdraft facilities to all settlement agents, in partnership with Africa’s participating Central Banks. According to Oramah, “PAPSS will effectively eliminate Africa’s financial borders, formalise and integrate Africa’s payment systems, and play a major role in facilitating and accelerating the huge AfCFTA-induced growth curve in intra-African trade.” According to the Pan-African multilateral financial institution, PAPSS provides the solution to the disconnected and fragmented nature of payment and settlement systems that have long impeded intra-African trade. Indeed, before PAPSS, over 80 per cent of African cross-border payment transactions originating from African banks were said to be routed offshore for clearing and settlement using international banking relationships. Expectedly, that posed multiple challenges, ranging from payment delays to operational inefficiencies and compliance concerns for the disparate regional payment systems. Ibrahim said NACCIMA was working with the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Region, and once the region stabilises, others would also come on board.  He said this would apply to Phase I of the AfCFTA, which is trade in goods. “We are discussing and negotiating on the Phase Two, which is services, intellectual property, investments etc and also in terms of conflict resolutions,” Ibrahim said, underscoring Nigeria’s readiness to play a leading role in the unfolding effort to leverage the AfCFTA to force Africa’s economic rebirth. Noting that the private sector in Nigeria has always been worried about being a dumping ground for goods from other countries, he, however, said the Rules of Origin (RoO) were being marshalled thoroughly and that the National Office for Trade Negotiations (NOTN) and the National Action Committee were working very hard to see that they establish the RoO such that no country could dump any goods on another country. This must be reason the Director-General of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Mr. Segun Ajayi-Kadir, harped on the need to constitute the National Rules of Origin Administration Board that will superintend the implementation of RoO and also validate the process (application and registration) of issuing the Certificate of Origin. RoO is key for trade in goods. They are used to determine the country of origin of a product for the purpose of international trade. And even before Nigeria signed on to the treaty, RoO was a subject of intense agitation by members of the OPS, especially manufacturers, who had expressed fears that the RoO in the AfCFTA cannot be adequately enforced to guard against the influx of goods into the Nigerian market. Their argument was that RoO might not be adequately enforced because goods from the European Union (EU) might find their way into one of the African countries that have bilateral agreement with the EU, and when such goods get into any of the African countries, they could repackage them, change the label from made in Europe to that of the African country. That way, manufacturers believe that those same goods will surely find their way to Nigeria, which is the main target market for the EU. But, with Ibrahim’s assurances, such fears are gradually being dispelled to pave way for Nigeria to fully take its pride of place in the new continental free trade regime. SPONSORED