The Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) in Ondo State has kept mum more than 24 hours after final results of Saturday’s Akure North/Akure South Federal constituency election results were released. Candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Lawson Mayorkun Alade was declared winner of the election with 26,370 votes against 24,201 scored by the PDP candidate, Olumuyiwa Adu. Akure North and Akure South local government areas used to be regarded as strongholds of the PDP. Former occupant of the seat, late Omolafe Adedayo, was of the PDP. With this loss, the Ondo PDP has three members in the House of Representatives while the Ondo APC has six members. The PDP won both local government areas in 2019 and in the 2020 governorship election where the PDP candidate, Eyitayo Jegede, defeated Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu with over 40,000 votes margin. Alade won in Akure North with 8, 684 where Adu got 5863 but in Akure South, Adu led with 18,338 while Alade garnered 17,686. Out of a total of 365,088 registered voters in Akure Federal Constituency, 52, 546 persons presented themselves for accreditation while 51,346 were valid votes cast. Spokesman for the PDP, Kennedy Peretei, said the party was still studying the results. Some chieftains of the PDP, however blamed lack of planning and coordination for the defeat.   Come and join our army, Ukraine appeals to foreigners     Heavy security at venue of Lagos PDP state congress     Terrorists storm wedding, abduct bride, others in Niger   Read Also: Low turn out mars Akure by-election A chieftain who pleaded anonymity said the results were shocking. According to him: “There was no planning. Is that how to conduct election? Was there any arrangements? It was only the party chairman and Eyitayo Jegede that were doing everything and they do not have experience for such things. “This was a winnable election. How could we have lost? There are 308 units in Akure South and only 102 in Akure North. “How did 102 units defeat 308 units where Jegede is from? Poor planning is better than no planning. That was why we lost. This was the same reason we lost 2020 election. They were chasing people away saying they have won. “Jegede will come and tell us how he is popular in Akure after this defeat.” Ondo APC Chairman, Engr. Ade Adetimehin, described the victory as strategic, critical and reassuring. Adetimehin, in a statement by spokesman of the party, Alex Kalejaiye, said the victory was an indication that the people appreciated the genuine efforts of the ruling party to better their lots, through selfless service. According to him: “The party chieftain urged the newly elected member of the National Assembly to view the mandate as an opportunity to serve his people and country. “What he does with this opportunity would determine how his people will relate with him in future engagements”. Candidates of both political parties could not be reached for comments as of press time.