The new Chairman, Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC), Mr. Oritsedere Otubu, has assured of improved power supply. He made the promise during a visit to some stakeholders in the industry in Abuja. Otubu, who was accompanied by the company’s Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Adeoye Fadeyibi; Director, Ernest Oji; and some management staff, visited the Ministry of Power, Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), Niger Delta Power Holding Company, and the Nigerian Electricity Liability Management Company (NELMCO). At the Federal Ministry of Power, the chairman was welcomed by the  Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, who congratulated Mr. Otubu on his appointment. The minister agreed with the chairman’s call for more collaboration by power sector actors and stated his confidence in the DisCo based on its track record of performance in the NESI, especially on financial remittance. He explained that the Federal Government was working on some projects to expand the capacity of the national grid to serve not only Lagos but also the entire country. BPE Director-General, Alex Okoh  expressed his satisfaction for more collaboration with stakeholders by EKEDC chairman.   EKEDC, USAID partner on STEM for schools     IE targets 24-hour supply     Can Nigeria meet its production output?   He stated that he is confident in the competence of the new chair to take EKEDC to a greater level. Okoh emphasised that Eko DisCo occupies a strategic franchise area in the power industry, thus such agenda is significant to the  economy and ensure that the intention of the privatisation process in making the sector more favourable to consumers and investors is achieved. He said he was impressed by how the Disco handled the power supply issues in Lagos and called on the other Discos to emulate it. TCN Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Sule Ahmed Abdulaziz, assured Otubu that TCN will involve the Disco in its ongoing projects to improve the electricity infrastructure as well as meet the Disco’s request of receiving more allocation from the national grid. Otubu said: “This visit is essential to us as we want our stakeholders to see us for who we are. We want to be more involved in the various plans and projects by the government in strengthening our network. It is important for us to work in collaboration with stakeholders to identify areas where we can get things better and effectively supply power to our customers. Eko DisCo must not only show that it is the leading Disco but also prove that the privatisation process of the power sector is a success.” The chairman also cited the recent power supply issue in Lagos due to the drop in generation, which led to frequent load shedding in many areas. He described the network as a strategic one growing rapidly because of increased industrial and commercial activities which have brought about the demand for more power supply. Hence, the inability to even meet up with the existing demand poses a real crisis for the DisCo.