Cyber, political risks and violence, and macroeconomic developments are likely to be the top three business risks in the year, the Allianz Risk Barometer 2022 report has shown. Cyber perils will be of the biggest concern for companies in Nigeria, Africa and Middle East, South Africa and worldwide in the year, the report added. The threat of ransomware attacks, data breaches or major Information Technology (IT) outages worries companies even more than business and supply chain disruption, natural disasters or the COVID-19 pandemic, which affected firms in the past year. The report, which is outcome of the 11th Allianz survey, states that pandemic outbreak dropped from first risk to ninth position as the majority of companies were less concerned and feel adequately prepared for future outbreaks. Besides, political risks and violence will still still be a major concern as they move from fifth to second. - Advertisement - Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty (AGCS), Joachim Mueller said business interruption might  remain the key risk theme for this year. Also, building resilience is becoming a competitive advantage for companies.   CIIN President gets honorary doctorate     How govt can reduce budget deficit, by expert     STI gets ‘A Rating’ from GCR with stable outlook   Globally, cyber incidents top the Allianz Risk Barometer for only the second time in the survey’s history (44 per cent of responses), Business interruption drops to a close second (42 per cent) and Natural catastrophes ranks third (25 per cent), up from sixth last year. Climate change climbs to its highest-ever ranking of sixth (17 per cent, up from ninth), while pandemic outbreak drops to fourth (22 per cent). The yearly survey from AGCS incorporates the views of 2,650 experts in 89 countries and territories, including CEOs, risk managers, brokers and insurance experts. Mueller said: “Business interrupted’ will likely remain the key underlying risk theme in 2022. For most companies, the biggest fear is not being able to make their products or deliver their services.” 2021 saw unprecedented levels of disruption, caused by various triggers. Crippling cyber-attacks, the supply chain impact from many climate change-related weather events, as well as pandemic-related manufacturing problems and transport bottlenecks wreaked havoc. This year only promises a gradual easing of the situation, although further COVID-19-related problems cannot be ruled out. Building resilience against the many causes of business interruption is increasingly becoming a competitive advantage for companies.” “Violence, changes in legislation and regulation rising concerns for businesses in Nigeria. Political risks and violence moved from fifth to second following #EndSars in 2020. Changes in legislation and regulation moves up four places to fourth in the country. Fortunately, large scale terrorism events have declined drastically in the last five years.” Head of Global Political Violence and Hostile Environment Solutions at AGCS, Bjoern Reusswig, however, said: “Civil unrest has soared, driven by protests on issues ranging from economic hardship to police brutality which have affected citizens around the world. And the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is making things worse – with little sign of an end to the economic downturn in sight, the number of protests is likely to continue climbing”, he said.   SPONSORED