Serving Overseer of Citadel Global Community Church, Pastor Tunde Bakare, has said anybody who succeeds President Muhammadu Buhari must build on the successes recorded by the current administration in the provision of modern agriculture, railways, road and bridges. He said the infrastructural development the Buhari administration recorded in the past six years, despite passing through two recessions, a pandemic and turbulent global economic realities, was commendable. The preacher expressed appreciation to President Buhari for his administration’s rail projects after boarding a train from Lagos to Abeokuta for the first time since 1967. Bakare spoke yesterday while delivering the 10th anniversary lecture of Elizade University at Ilara-Mokin in Ondo State, titled: Nigeria Beyond 2023: Reversing the Human Capital Paradox. The cleric stressed the need to reverse Nigeria’s human capital paradox through a compelling national vision for all-round development. He said the Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) showed the various deprivations experienced by Nigerians in their daily lives.   INEC: only 18 parties will take part in 2023 general…     Adamu storms out of meeting with NANS after students’ attack     Court to NDLEA: allow Abba Kyari access to medical treatment   Bakare said: “Global education philosophy, industry-academia linkage, systemic approach to healthcare delivery and Diaspora for development agreements would adequately reverse the human capital paradox. “I have come today as a forerunner to re-ignite and refuel your hope and to enlist you as forerunners of the new Nigeria; those who are prepared to pay the price to lay a new foundation for a new nation under God. “I am confident that by the grace of God and the determination of the Nigerian people, Nigeria will be saved, Nigeria will be changed, and Nigeria will be great in my lifetime.” Founder of Elizade University, Chief Michael Ade-Ojo, said he established the institution because of his love to develop his hometown, Ilara-Mokin. “I love my hometown very much. By building Elizade University, it is the fastest way that this town can be recognised, and I think that is fulfilled. “I believe God sent me to this town for a purpose. This is because when I needed help from this town, I did not get it. When I wanted to go to the university, I begged and applied for help, but nobody helped me. They said they had helped someone in the past who did not look back,”he said.