The crisis rocking the Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, Gombe State chapter took a new dimension on Friday with a faction of the association obtaining a court order stopping the newly elected executive from parading themselves as leaders of the chapter. In an exparte order obtained by Bishop Simeon Ehpron Yaldins and Reverend Joshua Bigla Kwaya from Justice H. H. Kereng of Gombe High Court, the duo also restrained the Reverend Joseph Alphonsus Shinga led executive from inaugurating, swearing-in, celebrating or any other activities into the said office. According to the order signed by the Higher Registrar of the court, Abubakar Hussain, the “defendants/respondents are to maintain status quo pending the hearing and determination of the plaintiffs/applicants motion on notice now pending before the court.” Similarly, the court also granted an order of interim injunction restraining the defendants/respondents, their agents, servants or privies from entering, taking over or any other interfering with the office of the CAN executive, Gombe State chapter. Leave is also granted to the Plaintiffs/Applicants to serve the National Headquarters of CAN Abuja with the originating process of the court as the first Defendant/Respondent. - Advertisement - The court then fixed Monday 28th day of February as the hearing date for the matter.   Kebbi, Pakistan set for bilateral cooperation to boost…     Lawan: why we are raising N25b for Yobe education     ‘Kano APC factions to reconcile’   The newly elected chairman, Reverend Joseph Alphonsus Shinga, who confirmed that he has been served the court notice and exparte order, said he has also forwarded same to both Zonal and National Headquarters of the association. The Zonal Chairman of CAN, North East, Reverend Abare Kallah, said the court order is coming as a surprise because the association is already getting closer to a truce over the matter when the court order was served on them. He however gave the assurance that the national leadership of the association has already waded into the matter and everything will be resolved very soon. “What I can say now is that the National Headquarters of CAN is on top of the situation right now and truce is in sight because they are involved in the whole process of December 14th 2021 election,” he said. Reverend Joseph Alphonsus Shinga of the Catholic Church block was elected alongside Pastor Chris Godobe, Pastor Solomon Ayanwale, Ven. Nimya Rana and Rev. Joel Philip Wakili as members of the new executive for CAN Gombe State Chapter and sworn-in same day. However, a detachment of police and security operatives were deployed to the CAN state head office in Gombe on 30th January this year to stop the inauguration of the new executive.