Rarely does this essayist patronise any rejoinder with his precious prose. But sometimes when a rabbit plays braggart around a big cat, like a white lion, it has itself to blame for being a quick and easy snack. So, when I wrote a piece, Here we go, last week, it was just to let the CBN governor understand that eyes are on him. He should quickly rebuke the interlopers of our public space with his posters. Or, if he supports them, he should withdraw his tail, resign his office and leave the nation’s Naira and kobo enterprise to those who are not paying visits to printing presses. we don’t want to see his faces on walls and electric poles. He is a CBN governor, not a model. He is not even a model of a CBN governor. To that later. But rather than follow the path of honour, the CBN’s shadow men were sent on another errand. They came in the name of the Coalition of Civil Society Groups. In their first outing, they named no names. They hid under Emefiele’s friends. I might have thought they would say, Mefi’s friends, because that is what his coterie of wasps who call themselves his friends call him in intimate moments, especially when they are in the “contractual” mood and gusto. Well, I called them amorphous, so they took the bait and announced themselves under a series of names. These so-called groups are also names without recognition. I would want to see pictures behind those names and a track record of the so-called groups and whether they can boast any profile of benefits to even their neighbours. I teased them out last week. They took the bait. They are exposed, if not completely. There are of course names behind those names. They should be bold enough to lift their veils. Or else we can as well call them the Game Boys of the media, the media equivalent of the Yahoo Plus. They are the ones pushing him around newspaper and television, and evangelising his glories as the Nigerian genius of money. All of this we will put to rest if Mefi can allow his dumb profile to expire, and talk. Mefi is too shy. Mefi is afraid. Mefi allows others to talk for him.  Mefi is waiting for God. Mefi is communing with the Holy Spirit. Or Mefi is pining for Buhari after his Jumaat prayers. Mefi must be messy. In their rejoinder, the so-called coalition wrote that Mefi ‘knows nothing about the posters.” Mefi must be in a different country. It’s at the airport and his work routes in Lagos and Abuja. Are they implying that the good old boss who oversees our money suddenly turned blind? He does not read? Now that he read my column, has he still remained blind? They contradict that by saying he is too busy to “throw stones at every dog that barks at him.” Or maybe they are saying he is blind, but he hears those who bark. Thank God for ears! Even at that, he knows, if not from his eyes but his ears. They accuse me of “malevolent intention,” of being “preposterous,” of malice, of lacking good faith and good conscience. To borrow the words of the French novelist Flaubert, they lack sentimental education. They need a few lessons in emotional intelligence. There is a book of that name. It is called Emotional Intelligence by Daniel Goleman. From the way they write, they don’t seem to read much. But I can afford them a copy if they seek enlightenment. I will ignore their canine metaphor or what literary critics call intentional fallacy. They are also guilty of affective fallacy. Not today for such theories. The real malevolence issues from them because all I ask for decency. The lack of decency of a CBN governor simultaneously running for president and enjoying the epaulettes of office is the same lack of decency in the expletives in  their advertorial diatribes. They are entitled to their own adjectives and nouns. So am I. But who is this Godwin Emefiele? Who is this man who has rented a bandwagon, and whose orchestra ministers no grace to the ears nor is it a beauty to behold?   Soludo’s vibes     Way forward for micro, small and medium-sized businesses     Those afraid of electoral bill!   He is the CBN governor who they are hoodwinking into a messiah. A man who became CBN chief under Ebele Jonathan. He was in charge of the CBN after the colourful Sanusi left to become a Kano monarch in a major career fiasco. Mefi is the one whose central bank enabled Jonathan and his men to compromise our vaults, where hauls and hauls of Naira were moved around, especially in the Otuoke chieftain’s attempt to come back to power. It was on his watch that all the loot for which Buhari’s EFFC got angry fell, and it pursued the femme fatale and oil minister Diezani Allison- Madueke, when Sambo Dasuki went berserk with billions distributed not only among party mavens but also to game boys. Was it not the same Emefiele, who bowed to the kabiyesis of power with file in hand like a school boy of JSS one? But before then, after the Jonathan misadventure, was he not lobbying not to be fired? He became a good boy after they retained him in his cosy apex office rather than to nest and rest in his Agbor redoubt in retirement. With such relief, can you blame him for bowing obsequiously to any oligarch in sight? Then he took over, and the first victim was the first child he should chaperon: the naira. Only last week, the IMF wrote that the Nigerian currency drops by 10.6 percent annually. He has also become what economists call an activist CBN governor. His hand is in every pie, agriculture, education, aviation, textiles, power, health, entertainment. He wants to be like Leonardo Dan Vinci, but he is jack of all trade and master of none. He is said to have overstretched the borrowing limit of the bank, but economists can always justify that for political reasons. But let’s see what he has done with all his interventions. The naira is limping like a dog. That is the dog he should pay attention to. In agriculture, we saw an exhibition of a rice pyramid. It was a mockery of Nigerian hunger. While glorifying rice, the cost of the same commodity has doubled since he became CBN chief. The pyramid is as high as the cost for anyone. Again, he claims we do not import rice. Officially yes. But he should go to the borders in the night, and witness trailers after trailers of rice streaming through. Go to the mama puts and dinner tables, and you will know that Nigerians don’t import rice but eat imported rice. What a paradox. What meretricious glory. His Anchor Borrower programme has no anchor with the people, and it is yielding nothing, so we are just borrowing from the future. He puts his hand in power, we grope in the dark; in textile, we clothe in pain, where are the textile booms of old? In farming, we famish; In education, where is the fruit in schools? In entertainment, no one is dancing. Some economists have cavilled at activist CBN governors. It is a new war between what they call New Keynesians and New Classicists, the former being in Mefi’s camp. But Keynesians want to lead the economy by the nose. No problem for me, but lead right. The Classicists descend from Adam Smith and Ricardo. But our Mefi has not done right by Maynard Keynes. Look at CACOVID and the mess – that word again – he made of it. Billions that I want the CBN to account for. The people turned poorer for it rather than turn that money into profitable use, it became a sort of contractor’s delight. His men are hiding under the camaraderie of cowardice because the real men goading him cannot reveal themselves. This man is a victim of a racket but does not know yet until his eyes of understanding will be open. Too late then. He should also deny reports of three private jets making the rounds. In spite of these failings, Mefi can run for president. But he cannot have his cake and take it. Even the new electoral law signed by Buhari forbids appointees from running while in office. He just should follow the honour path, resign and let’s tackle his messy legacy. Or he should remain and we, as Nigerians say, “will manage him like that” until his tour is over.   Who on God’s earth does Isa Bayero think he is? In what century does he think we are living in? Maybe he thinks this is the age of Uthman Dan Fodio, a feudal epoch where a prince can ride roughshod on any mortal. He says he is a pilot and flew a few presidents. Congratulations. But the age of pilots, he should know, came after the age of the divine rights of kings. He is here but living in the age of caves. Not in the 21st century. Otherwise he won’t insist that an airline about to taxi should stop for about an hour because a person wants to fly. It is not an emirate airline with a small e. It is not Feudal Air or Royal Skies. It is Airpeace and those on board were not royalists but republicans. I don’t know what presidents he flew, but I guess they were not democrats. Bayero said Airpeace Chairman Allen Onyema should apologise? What royal impunity? The Kano throne has a history of better dignity than that. I am sure Onyema will not apologise or travel to Kano to bow for an offence committed against him. It is Isa, who should wrap his tail around him. We abide in a democracy and not in a kingdom.