The Imo State Police Command has arrested a suspected killer of a retired Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), Christian Kpatuma. The police officer was killed on Wednesday by suspected cultists in the Agwa area of Oguta Local Government Area of the state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Kpatuma was abducted from his residence by young men suspected to be cultists. They took him to a nearby bush where they allegedly killed him, brought his body back and dumped it in front of his compound. The command’s spokesman, Mike Abattam, said in a statement that the suspect, Deberechi Chukwu, alleged leader of the cult group, was arrested after investigation. - Advertisement - Abattam said the suspect was arrested at a border while trying to escape to a neighbouring state.   BREAKING: Benin Republic extends Sunday Igboho’s detention…     FPSO fire: Three crew members alive, seven missing     Raw materials: Manufacturers renew push for backward…   The statement said, “On receipt of information that Kpatuma was taken to a nearby bush where he was killed and later the body was brought back and dumped in front of his compound, the Commissioner of Police, CP Rabiu Hussaini, immediately dispatched the command’s tactical teams to the Agwa community with a mandate to fish out the perpetrators of the dastardly act. “After diligent gathering of both forensic and technical intelligence, one of the suspects, Deberechi Chukwu, was arrested while escaping to another state. Police said it was found that the suspect was a notorious kidnapper and an escapee from the Imo Correctional Center, Owerri. According to him, the suspect, after escaping from prison, recruited young men into his cult group and were terrorising the Agwa community. “It is also on record that he was involved in the killing of a lot of security personnel in the state. “However, he has made useful statement and has volunteered to assist the police in the arrest of other members of his gang currently on the run,” he said.