Luka Modric has blown away all expectations in what has been a remarkable career for a player who was once considered to be too ‘lightweight’ for the Premier League. This summer the classy midfielder will celebrate a notable anniversary – 10 years since he moved to Real Madrid from Tottenham for £30m. He has won an incredible four Champions League winners medals – three of which were in succession, two LaLiga titles, three UEFA Super Cups, three Club World Cups, one Copa del Rey and four Spanish Super Cups. In 2018, he also led Croatia to their first World Cup final and despite a 4-1 defeat, he was handed the award for the best player at the tournament. It was in the same year that he broke Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo’s stranglehold on the Ballon d’Or and still to this day he is the only player other than legendary duo to lift the prestigious trophy since Kaka in 2007. - Advertisement - Modric is now 36-years-old, and is in the final year of his contract at the Santiago Bernabeu. Although he has plenty to look back at on during his time at the club, he is still looking forward and wants to achieve more success with Los Blancos before his time in the white shirt comes to an end. Modric told Sportsmail while promoting the new sports social app Sportening: “As I approach ten years at Real Madrid what I can say? “Ten amazing years, a dream, I achieved a lot – maybe even more than I expected but I still want to continue achieving big things at Madrid. “’I’m never satisfied with what I did. I always want more and hopefully in the future I will achieve some big things again with Real Madrid as long as I am at the club.”   UCL: Pochettino sketches Kylian Mbappe’s future     Luis Enrique linked to Man United     SADIO’S BACK: Mane set for possible Liverpool return   There is great promise for Real Madrid in the 2021-22 campaign, in what is perhaps the most unusual LaLiga season during his time at the club. Read Also: UCL: Pochettino sketches Kylian Mbappe’s future Along with El Clasico rivals Barcelona and Atletico, all three clubs have occupied the top positions in LaLiga in varying order since Modric’s arrival at the club. This season, though, Real Madrid sit six points ahead of Sevilla after 23 games, with Real Betis occupying third. Barcelona who are in transition with their financial struggles are fourth – 15 points down on their rivals, while reigning champions Atletico are out of the Champions League places in fifth. Madrid were knocked out of the Copa del Rey by Athletic Bilbao but there are still hopes that they can win their 14th Champions League trophy. Modric has been linked with a move away from Real Madrid in recent seasons to various clubs in Premier League and Serie A. But the player who is widely regarded as the best Croatian footballer in history is still an integral part to Carlo Ancelotti’s side, making 26 appearances this season and playing at a top standard. “There’s no secret’ to why he continues playing at the highest level, Modric admitted. “It’s all natural. I’m enjoying what I’m doing, I love football. Of course I’m working on myself, I take care of myself on a daily basis. I live for football and I think those are the reasons I feel good. How long I have? I don’t know it’s difficult to say, what I’m doing is going week by week, month by month, year by year and we’ll see how I feel. “Time will tell how long it will take but I don’t put any limits (to how long he can play), I’m just enjoying at the moment and hopefully it will continue a few more years.” The Modric everyone knows today has come a long way since the player that joined Tottenham from Dinamo Zagreb back in 2008 for £16.5m. Signed by Juande Ramos, Modric made a slow start at White Hart Lane as he suffered from a knee injury early during his tenure and was labelled as ‘light-weight’ by various sections of the media.