THE Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) has appealed to the Federal Government to enforce compulsory insurance. Its President, Mr. Rotimi Edu, spoke at this month’s NCRIB Members’ Evening hosted by African Alliance Insurance Plc in Lagos. Edu stated that enforcement was still at its low ebb, and that ythe government’s intervention was urgently needed. He said some of the fake sellers of motor insurance had their offices in some local government secretariats. Aside from loss of revenue, he said the criminals had created a bad image for the industry. He noted that most of the unattended claims in motor insurance were victims of fake certificates.   NGX urges investors to diversify portfolios     Ogunbiyi joins Marketing Edge Hall of Fame     Guinea launches motor insurance self-service portal   He said: “It was recently reported that the Nigerian insurance industry loses over N160 billion yearly to fake motor insurance racketeer. It is, however, disheartening to note that an industry which had been contributing less than one per cent to the gross domestic product, in spite of its huge potentials, loses such whopping amount of money to fake vendors who contribute nothing to the growth of the nation. “Some of the insurance policies flying around local government are just putting money into people’s pocket. I am certainly aware that the Nigerian Insurers Association deployed technology in curbing proliferation of fake certificates. But I am of the opinion that enforcement is still at its low ebb. “We appeal to the government to wade into the situation and curb the perpetrators. Also, my plea goes to Vehicle Inspection Service (VIS) to see this as a clarion call. Your organisation can as well increase your enforcement strategies to include Insurance Certificate in such a way that any motorist without genuine Motor Insurance Certificate should be made to face sanctions as stipulated in the law. “Our economy continues to drag because we are not paying attention to the issue of insurance.” Also, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, African Alliance Insurance Plc, Joyce Ojemudia, said brokers crucial are to driving insurance penetration. She emphasised that NCRIB  is a  a partner worthy of doing business with. “Ours is a mutually rewarding relationship and as a business, our goal is to improve on this with all our stakeholders whilst delivering best-in-class insurance services to all our policyholders,” she added.