You cannot miss Teranga Lions’ former star player El Hadji Diouf in Cameroon. He is flamboyant and the former Senegalese talisman knows how it feels to lose in the final of the Africa Cup of Nations Cup (AFCON). He was part of the squad that lost the AFCON final to Cameroon in 2002. The team ranks among the best in African history and as a member of the golden generation is El Hadji Diouf. Speaking after his country booked their place in another AFCON final, the third in history, Diouf is of the opinion that the present team carries the hope of a nation. In a chat with The Nation, Diouf is pleased with the team’s progress in the tournament but he wants the efforts of the team to be crowned with trophy. He said: “I am so pleased and very excited because we are in the third final now. We know the final is going to be tough but we will put everything together to ensure that we get it right this time,” he said. “We enjoyed winning against Burkina Faso in the semi-final. The team has improved from their group stage matches till the semi-final game. - Advertisement - Part of the efforts put in place by the Senegal Football Federation (SFF) for the realization of the title is to draft former stars into the team in an advisory capacity. “I think we have everything to make it happen. We have great former players around the team, Aliou Cissé, Lamine Diatta, Tony Sylva, and I. They are all legends. We are all working with the team and they are listening to us. We are all working together and it is all about teamwork to achieve success.” Senegal opponent Egypt on Thursday at the Olembe Stadium defeated hosts nation, Cameroon in the second semifinal to set up a classic final clash against Senegal on Sunday. The clash is against the former champions and the newcomers who have been hunting for the title that eluded the country since its debut appearance in 1965. Egyptians are the most successful nation in the biennial competition, winning the title on the seventh occasion; the pharaohs would be seeking their eighth trophy when they confront the Teranga Lions on Sunday at the Olembe Stadium.   THREE TIMES LUCKY Senegal is yet to win an AFCON title in its history; they would be hoping to be three times lucky, having been in the final on two occasions. The 2002 tournament marked the best ever result in Senegalese football history, with the team falling to Cameroon 2–3 on penalties after a goalless draw in the final. Senegal once again finished as runners-up in 2019, losing the final 0–1 to Algeria. Going into the final, the Liverpool forward Sadio Mane and one the team’s star players, with three goals so far in the 2021 AFCON, knows what is at stake to lift the trophy, having experienced heartbreak in the last edition in Egypt. To Mane, winning the AFCON title is more paramount to the team and the country this time than qualification for the final. He is confident that the Teranga Lions would be able to make it happen this time. REDEMPTION SONG “I think winning the tournament will be more important than being in the final and I think we are capable of winning it. I know it won’t be easy winning but we will give everything to make it happen,” Mane told The Nation. Adding, “I am very happy that we were able to overcome Burkina Faso in the semi-final. They played well and it was a tough game. Although it was a little bit difficult I knew we would beat them. The win was key for us as a team and the nation in general and I am very proud of our progress in the tournament.”   Constitution amendment: NASS splits Minister of Justice…     APC: Fresh dust in Enugu, Rivers, Ogun, Abia, others over…     Three feared dead in Onitsha market building collapse   The Watford of England forward Ismaila Sarr, who arrived at the tournament late due to a delay from his club, believes that the only thing to give Senegalese for their support over the year is winning the title on Sunday. “We are happy that we are in the final. We played in the final two years ago and we lost it and we are ready to do something this year to lift the trophy,” he said. For the Egyptians, beating the host Nation, Cameroon, to reach the final is one of the greatest feats recorded in the ongoing tournament and the team’s assistant coach Diaa al-Sayed, who took charge of the team when the team’s head coach Carlos Queiroz was sent off for remonstrating with the referee.  “The victory against Cameroon is a victory for us and victory to all the Egyptian people. It was a very difficult game. We played for more than 120 minutes without a goal. We have the best players in our team so we will be more prepared for the final and we need more concentration than we had in the previous matches. Here we are, despite the difficulty we encountered during the game we still made it to the final. It is a good thing to defeat one of the favourites in the competition,” Al-Sayed said. Al-Sayed is also relishing the importance of having Salah in the team ahead of the final. Salah has played a pivotal role in the team’s success so far with two goals. The Egyptian King has now scored 25 goals in 31 games for club and country this season, showing some of his very best form. His first international trophy is now just two games away, too. “With the presence of Mo Salah in our team, I think we will be okay for the final. Salah is not the best player in our country. Salah is one of the best players in the world… just being on the pitch, making very big changes in the ideas of the rival team,” he added. “As a matter of fact, our team is the only team in the tournament that has played 120 minutes on three occasions. We will need to be focused and prepared very well. The players are committed and they are ready to give their best. We thanks Egyptian fans who are here with us, they have been encouraging the team. Our fans are part of our success.” Salah came close to winning it at the 2017 edition after losing to Cameroon in the final and they crashed out in the round of 16 at 2019 in Egypt. “Of course, I want to win something with the national team. It’s my country, what I love the most. This trophy for me would be completely different, would be the closest to my heart,” Salah said. “We were close before to win this African Cup (in 2017), we gave it everything but we were not lucky to win it. But it’s ok, now we are here in the new one. “We have to fight for it, we have to give everything to win it and I’m sure the players have the same feeling.” Al Ahly goalkeeper Mohamed El Shenawy, who managed two clean sheets in the group stage and was also in top form against the Elephants in the Round of 16 fixture before he was injured, said the team was determined to make it to the final from day one of the competition. “From the first day, we all agreed to stay until the last day of the championship, and God made us succeed and we spoke. The players of the national team were real men and our promise is more than a difficult match, they showed some consistency. Congratulation to the Egyptian people and God willing, we will continue your joy with the cup,” he said. The contest will also witness the best of African players in Salah and Mane who are seeking to add AFCON title to their trophies cabinet. Soccer Editor (Kwesé ESPN, Africa) ED Dove, has predicted a tough duel between the two teams. “We are going to see a great showdown between great two best players, Salah and Mane; two players with the same team. They lifted Premier League and Champions League trophies together. It is going to be a tough game in the final,” Dove said. “I think there are two redemption stories. You have both of them on the back of losing their last finals in 2017 and 2019. We get two superstars, Salah and Mane. I want to say this is the first time since the 80s that we are having two great stars in Africa football playing against each other in the final of the Nations Cup. That is also huge. Final is rarely a free-flowing attacking affair. I think Senegal have more cross to part. Egypt are without two goalkeepers, two big losses; Cameroon were unable to capitalize on that but I am hopeful that Senegal will be able to capitalize on that.”