Former Nigeria international striker Emmanuel Amuneke is excited about the opportunity of tinkering the Super Eagles after his announcement as the Chief Coach of the Super Eagles by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) on Monday. Amuneke, the 1994 African Footballer of the Year, previously worked as an assistant to coach Garba Manu when Nigeria won a record fourth FIFA Under-17 World Cup trophy in the United Arab Emirates in 2013; and served as the substantive coach when the Golden Eaglets won a record-extending fifth U-17 World Cup title in Chile in 2015. He had a brief stint with the national U-20 team afterwards as the Flying Eagles failed to secure a ticket to the 2017 edition of the U-20 Africa Cup of Nations. But in his first major interview since Monday’s announcement, the 51-year-old Amuneke said he was happy to be so appointed into the coaching crew of the national team. “ As I usually say, I’ve had the privilege of saying Nigeria as a player and after my retirement when I ventured into coaching, I have had the privilege of serving Nigeria as a coach at the youth level and today Nigerians who believed in me and what I’m doing have also clamoured for this n (as Super Eagles coach) ,” the former Barcelona winger told Lagos-based Sports Radio Station, Brila FM.“ What can I say than to thank everybody and hopefully, God would give us the wisdom to do the right thing and what is right for our football to move forward.   2022 Race: Nigeria, Ghana clash fixed for Mar. 27     Chelsea vs. Al Hila: Ighalo eyes goals against European…     Lagos to host 2022 African Fencing Championship   “ I really want to thank all Nigerians that have so much confidence in me. It’s amazing to have been so loved over the years by Nigerians.” - Advertisement - Amuneke is expected to work alongside his former teammate coach Austine Eguavoen who was also on Monday retained as the Super Eagles interim Technical Adviser with their first major assignment being the tricky West African derby against the Black Stars of Ghana for one of the five African slots for Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup in March. “ Our dreams and the dream of every Nigerian is to see the Super Eagles at the World Cup in Qatar and with positive beliefs of everybody, who says we can’t qualify for Qatar,” explained Amuneke who also had coaching stints at Sudanese club SC Khartoum and Egyptian side Misr El-Makkasa.“ We can qualify; but we have to do what is needful. “ We know how important it is playing against Ghana despite the fact that we are brothers but it’s better we do things silently,” added Amuneke.