Borno State Governor Babagana Zulum has expressed the confidence that the menace of Boko Haram terrorism would not go beyond next year. Prof Zulum spoke with reporters yesterday after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House in Abuja. “The way we are going, with the support of the Federal Government and with good management, Boko Haram will be over very soon,” the governor said. Asked if he meant that Boko Haram’s reign could end by 2023, when his first term in office would be ending, the governor said: “Insha Allah. You know what I mean by Insha Allah (God willing),” adding: “Insha Allah. Even now in Borno State, we’re doing very well, extremely well”. The governor also disclosed that at least 30,000 repentant terrorists from both the Boko Haram and Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP) groups have surrendered to government. - Advertisement - He said: “This time around, we have also started witnessing defection of ISWAP members. This is a welcomed development. Under closed-door session, we discussed a lot of issues on how the government of Borno State, as well as the federal government, will manage the ongoing surrender by the insurgents.” Asked to place a figure on the rate of surrender, he said: “as at now, we’ve received nothing less than 30,000, from beginning to date – just Boko Haram member. We have started receiving ISWAP in few numbers, but we have started receiving Boko Haram in huge numbers”. Zulum reiterated his position on exploring political solution to end insurgency.   Revenue allocation formula unfair to Niger Delta, by Diri     It’s not lawmakers’ duty to lobby executive, says…     Queen Elizabeth under scrutiny after Charles tests positive   He said: “As I’ve been saying before, the kinetic measures alone will never end the insurgency. The social and political dimension of this crisis is very important. So, we have decided to engage them through dialogue and mediation, with a view to ensuring that many of them should lay their arms. “So far, so good, the objective started yielding positive result. Apart from this also, in the Borno State, for example, as I told you last time, we had problems in the shores of the Lake Chad as well as in Southern Borno. “I’m pleased to inform you that there was a very heavy military deployment into the southern Borno. And I hope such a deployment will also take place in northern Borno, with a view to clearing the ISWAP insurgents in the Lake Chad. “So, this has also yielded positive results. On the relocation of the two local government areas that I said are not occupied by human beings. We are also doing very well with the military to see how we can return back the population. “The military have also given us the go ahead. So, we’re working with them to see how we can return them. Things are getting better in Borno State and this is the major reason why I came to see Mr. President.” Making a distinction between surrendered terrorists and captured ones, he said the state government does not offer any incentive to the fighters to come out of the forests. Rather, they have done so voluntarily. Zulum said: “I don’t give any promissory notes to defectors, honestly speaking. But you have to also understand one very important thing. There is a difference between those that have been captured and those that have surrendered. People should understand these two unidentical situations.” He said Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is chairing a committee with him as the deputy to look into the issues of repatriation, resettlement, and reconciliation. “The mandate of this committee among others also includes the management of defectors. I think this committee is strong enough to give the desired support to the program. The Federal Government is doing very well,” he added.