The Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) has reacted to moves by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to woo the Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu with a governorship ticket.  . The Lagos APC spokesman, Mr. Seye Oladejo warned the PDP to desist from its age-long tactics of perennial attempts to destabilize the ruling party by  the deliberate promotion of falsehood, blackmail and arms – twisting strategies for political advantage. The statement reads: “Our attention has been drawn to the offer of the opposition PDP’s gubernatorial ticket to the governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu in the next national elections. “While the thought of desperately offering its worthless electoral tickets to every passerby is laughable, the extent of the level of degradation, degeneration and comatose state of Lagos State PDP should not be lost on all and sundry. - Advertisement - “The platform that initially elected Governor Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, having acknowledged his glowing performance across various sectors in his first term, is certainly still available to recontest for another term. “His deft handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and the successful execution of the all-encompassing THEMES agenda has endeared him to Lagosians as a compassionate, committed and the right leader for a time like this.   Navy destroys 175 illegal refining sites, arrests 27 vessels     Udom Emmanuel and the uncommon anointment     51 monarchs receive Staff of office in Imo   “He has, without doubt, redirected our state to the path of progress and restored our pride of place as the leading light in the federation. “As the ruling party, we want to admonish the state governor to remain focused and undistracted from the onerous task of finishing strongly and fulfilling his part of the social contract with the good people of Lagos State. “We wish to warn the opposition PDP to desist from its age-long tactics of perennial attempts to destabilize the ruling party by  the deliberate promotion of falsehood, blackmail and arms – twisting strategies for political advantage. “While we sympathize with Lagos State PDP over its several years of political misfortunes and misadventures, good wisdom dictates that it put its house in order to have a semblance of relevance. “It’s pitiable that PDP could only think of fishing in the pool of capable talents in the APC while looking for people to offer its worthless electoral tickets. “This underscores the lack of attraction in the PDP and an admittance of its usual Waterloo in the forthcoming elections. “Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu hereby unequivocally rejects this Greek gift and hereby states that APC remains his party of choice in making his next political move, which will be made known in due course to all Lagosians,” the statement said.