Ahead of the June 18 governorship poll in Ekiti State, former Governor Segun Oni and first runner- up in the just- concluded governorship primaries of the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has withdrawn his membership from the party. The spokesman of Segun Oni Movement Mr. Adebayo Jackson confirmed this to The Nation in Ado-Ekiti on Saturday. Jackson stated the decision of Oni and thousands of supporters to leave PDP was taken at stakeholders’ meeting at Oni’s residence in Ifaki-Ekiti, Ido/ Osi Local Government Area. Oni, has however not indicated the party he would be pitching tent with. But speculations are rife that the Ex-Governor may join All Progressives Grand Alliance(APGA) to contest the governorship poll. - Advertisement - But Jackson stated that the Ex-Governor would unveil on Tuesday the new party where his name would be listed before the close of substitution for the June 18 governorship election. He stated that Oni yielded to pressures from the overwhelming majority of Ekiti people who are desirous of returning him back to the Government House under any political party.   Army plotting execution of detained Obigbo youths, IPOB…     TCN restores 180mw in Egbin power station     Three kidnapped Warri lawyers, driver regain freedom   The former PDP Publicity Secretary hinted that Oni would be leaving the PDP with a sizeable number of members, adding his resignation from the party is with immediate effect. “Engr. Segun Oni has finally resigned from PDP. All the people of Ekiti has decided that they want Segun Oni on any platform. And he had harkened to the calls. “In fact, it was the image of Oni that has been promoting the image of PDP in Ekiti State. And once he the PDP has decided to kill itself we have to take a bow and leave. “Ekiti people will not leave Oni alone to go like that because they can’t see any other person that can deliver what Oni has been doing for them. “So, it is the voice of the people and not the voice of anybody. As it is now, both PDP and APC will be contesting against the people of Ekiti. And the symbol of the people of Ekiti State is Engr. Oni”, Jackson said. Former Director of Segun Oni Campaign Organisation, Hon. Lanre Ogunsuyi, said the former Governor’s exit was informed by high degree of injustice melted to Oni by some powerful forces in the party during the January 26, primary election. “We have just said bye bye to PDP and oga thanked all the people that worked with him and dissolved all the structures that ran the purported primary in PDP. What we have now is a confluence of people called Segun Oni Movement. By next week, we should have sorted ourselves out in line with INEC timetable. “It is normal to speculate about politician especially a politician of Oni’s stature. He is a former Governor and he has just left PDP. What is certain is that we have left PDP but we are not certain about where we are going.”