A coalition of four groups has demanded for the return of power to the South. They insist that the current political and security situation in the country requires that power should shift to the South. The coalition, which had hitherto worked to actualise the ambition of former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar to become president, also asked the former number two citizen to drop his ambition to run in 2023 and support the South. The pro-Atiku organisations were Middle Belt Network for Atiku led by Luka Pam and Madaki Yakubu; North 4 North Support Group for Atiku championed by Mohammed Garba and Abubakar Sanni; Turaki Arewa Vanguard for Atiku led by Musa Abdullahi and Rabiu Ibrahim; and South-West Development Frontiers led by Femi Osabinu and Olufemi Lawson. Speaking at a press conference in Abuja, Convener of the Coalition, Femi Osabinu said that at 77, the former Vice President should retire from active politics and remain a statesman.   NBTE grant full accreditation to 11 HND courses at NASPOLY      Ignore region, focus on performance in 2023, Patriotic…     One escapes death as car flies off Jabi Bridge in Abuja   - Advertisement - Osabinu said: “We make a clear and undiluted call on former Vice President Atiku Abubakar to give a second thought to his desire to contest for the office of President in the elections again in 2023. “While Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has served the nation with distinction, as evidenced in the fact that we have been his supporters for years, it is also undeniable that at 77 years of age going into this race, it will be a mismatch of national priorities to support his quest, taking into consideration the unique interplay of circumstances currently confronting our country. “Nigeria needs a young and more energetic unifier, who will be able to handle the rigours of being physically present in crises spots to make the physical and psychological statement of the government being in charge and committed to finding lasting solutions to our national challenges. “Our members, in their numbers across the country, are on standby in the various political parties and consulting from outside of the parties to ensure that the South Eastern presidency is achieved in 2023.” The convener said their call is based on the “mood of the nation.” “We believe that Nigeria must get it right and those who have most benefitted from Nigeria must pay back by putting national interest above personal ambition.