The Chairman, Ikeja Electric (IE), Mr. Kola Adesina, has assured of the company’s commitment to achieving 24-hour electricity supply. Adesina spoke at the unveiling of IE’s Shomolu Business Unit office, Lagos. Speaking on the sidelines at the event, Adesina explained that the firm is supplying 22 hours electricity in some areas, and will invariably scale up to 24 hours. “If other countries can do it then we can do it. It’s a journey and we will get there. At present, we are doing 22 hours in some locations. So, invariably, we have moved from when it used to be less than 10 hours to 22 hours and  we will definitely get to 24 hours,” he said. He said IE is committed to selling more energy to its customers, as well as remedying faults faster. He however charged the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) and gas suppliers to ensure that gas is readily made available to the operators in the sector. “We cannot industrialise this country without electricity,” he added. Adesina said in addition to providing the required infrastructure that will strengthen his firm’s network and bolster services, the unveiling of the new Shomolu Business Unit office signifies that IE prioritises both its members of staff members and customers. “This building provides conducive environment for our staff, enabling them to work better, think intelligently and strategically, while ensuring quality service delivery,” he noted.   Can Nigeria meet its production output?     Content board, Navy to partner on NOGICD Act on vessel…     Association lauds NLNG over LPG supply   - Advertisement - Also, IE’s Chief Executive Officer, Folake Soetan, said the company is excited to improve service delivery to its customers. According to her, the inauguration of the facility is designed to optimise operations in the area of location in line with the firm’s our mantra-customer first, technology now. For her, through the new office, IE will continue to deliver top-notch services to her teeming customers in the network. “Our effort to continuously improve customer experience and deliver optimal value is the motivating force behind all we do at IE. And that is what has helped to position us as industry leader,” she said. On the company’s plan for the year, Soetan noted that IE is resolved to further deliver efficient services through online and offline touchpoints, by attending to queries promptly and using innovative solutions that offer convenience and unique experience. She said the company would continue to redefine its operations with innovative solutions while exploring better ways to work. “The satisfaction of customers remains the priority, and this restates our unwavering commitment to service excellence through continuing investment in our people and technology,” she added. She listed this year’s target for the firm to include growth in energy which would scale up supply across the network, while several projects have been outlined for the year across the six business Units – Shomolu, Oshodi, Abule-Egba, Ikorodu, Ikeja and Akowonjo. The Chairman of Odi-Olowo CDC, Otunba Adebayo Adekunle, commended firm for the feat. He said: “This is an improvement to what we used to have in Shomolu. It is evident that the company aims to deliver better service to people in Shomolu and its environs. That is why Ikeja Electric has considered the customers, by creating an enabling environment for better service.”