The Lagos State Standing Tribunal of Inquiry into Chieftaincy Matters sitting in Ikeja has declined to create and/or recognise the position of an Oba for Maiyegun Town in Eti-Osa Local Government Area (LGA) of the state. The Tribunal chaired by Justice Titilola Ojikutu-Oshode reaffirmed the kingdom & supreme authority of the Oba Elegushi of Ikateland over the land and chieftaincy in Mayegun. It made the affirmation in a ruling on a petition filed by one Prince Rahmon Adetunji Laani Maiyegun and a “purported Maiyegun Royal Family” praying for the creation and/or recognition of Oba of Maiyegun Town. The Tribunal of Inquiry in its report, signed by its five members, found that the Maiyegun family are not royalty and do not have blue blood.   Two policemen, two others shot dead in Ibadan bullion van…     Diri to land grabbers: steer clear of new Yenagoa City     Edo govt, NNPC, group deliver project   In the forty-page report, the members of panel agreed that the Mayegun family could neither prove that they first settled in Maiyegun nor that they have royal ancestry to enable the elevation. - Advertisement - It also held that evidence before it showed that it could neither recommend the creation or recognition of Oba of Maiyegun Town nor declaration of Abdul Rahmon Adetunji Laani Mayegun to Obaship status. In its application to the tribunal, the Maiyegun Family claimed to be related to a purported Prince Ajibosin, son of Iyunade, the daughter of Oduduwa, the progenitor of the Yoruba race and also enjoyed the support of other family houses or the majority in Maiyegun Town. It was, however, established that the family has no such relationship and does not have the support of the other families or majority of the town. Other findings of the tribunal were that the applicant Rahmon Adetunji Laani Mayegun for Obaship status failed to obtain the consent of the Elegushi Royal Family of Ikate Land who is the consenting authority or the Chieftancy Committee and that the applicant did not comply with the Oba and Chief Laws of Lagos State and such non-compliance rendered the application void ab initio.