The Principal, Kingsfold International Academy, Ikorodu, Lagos, Mrs. Olubunmi Osobamiro, has lamented the high rate of bribery in the education system. Bribery, she said, had eaten deep into the system to the extent that parents were willing to pay any amount, to make sure their children graduate. Osobamiro, however, said such practice was not tolerated at Kingsfold International Academy, which has a Christian orientation and upholds moral and discipline. “We have a zero tolerance policy for bribery, malpractice, bullying amongst others,” she said, adding that a teacher had been sacked in the past for attempting malpractice. As a result  of the school’s strict stance against malpractice, the proprietor said that some parents choose to withdraw their wards as the school insists on excellence by self-help not by bribery. “We will never become a special centre because we have a policy to uphold.  To the glory of  God, every child here works for their grade.  They are not the best and certainly they are not the worst,” she said.   Foundation donates to Makoko pupils today     Philanthrophist gives scholarship, launches foundation     FUNAAB trains farm families, youths   Mrs. Osobamiro described bullying as one of the major problems in the country that her school really frowns at. She said pupils get suspended for bullying in the school. Speaking on teaching and learning, Mrs. Osobamiro said that for effective learning, a child has to be emotionally and physically ready. “Education is not all about going to class and saying, ‘students we are doing maths today.’  It is about the emotional wellbeing of the children; the child must be emotionally ready. “I am a teacher; I teach and train both teaching and non-teaching staff.  I push and motivate them to bring out the best from them.” In giving back to the society, Mrs. Osobamiro said the school installed street lights, grades the road that leads to the school from the bus stop twice a year, and gives employment and scholarships to members of the community.