Popular Master of Ceremonies Denrele Edun has visited the graveside of his closest friend, Goldie, who died nine years ago. Late singer Goldie Harvey and Denrele Edun were very close friends before she died on February 14, 2013. They were said to have shared so many things in common and were close to starting a reality TV show. Tagged: Goldie and Denrele- ‘True Friendship’, the show which was supposed to start airing on TV by the end of February 2013 was to centre around both friends and how they expressed support for each other. Nine years later, as it has been a tradition with the 40-year-old TV host, he paid a visit to the resting place of his buddy to recounts experiences and reminisces on precious past moments. - Advertisement - Taking to his Instagram page, the entertainer shared several photos taken at the graveside of Goldie with a lengthy caption. He wrote: “9 YEARS AND STILL COUNTING! You’re not here GOLDIE HARVEY, but your presence lingers in the shadows. You don’t see what I see, but I hear you laughing with me when I laugh. You don’t know what I feel, but I feel you, feeling for me. “Came to visit you as usual, dear Friend and again, I felt your presence… In that swift sweep of wind that always picks up around your Resting Place. “Did you like my outfit today? I re-enacted that all-black outfit You rocked when we were hosted at *that Club* in Abuja, the same one where the DJ refused to play your songs. Imagine the cheek of him! I remember how you stormed out in anger, but only ME could drag you back in and “shéy Werey” for the DJ to play Track 1 to 5!   Wizkid ‘Made- In- Lagos’ equals 27-year-old billboard charts…     Sugar daddies don’t bankroll me, says…     Most wealthy Nigerians into rituals, Seun Kuti alleges   “Remember your Blonde Hairstyle in JoBurg? I re-rocked it today for you in black! “And as you always said to me; “People like us have so much LOVE to give but will hardly get it back!”….. While filling in his buddy with life’s events, Denrele revealed his partner called off their relationship in the wee hours of Valentine’s Day. He added: “Well, guess what? I was served “HOT BREAKFAST” at bout 4 a.m this morning…. In their words, “I’m not ready to love you the way you love me. I’m not in that headspace now”. Imagine! But you know me! Tough Cookie….I’ll survive! (I still haven’t found that Foreigner you told me to get hooked to…. I’m STILL not attracted to “whitey”!). “Well, I came to sit at your Resting place and give you all the usual gist! REST IN POWER GURLFRIEND! “I have learned that Grief is another name for Love. We grieve because we had the opportunity of connecting deeply with another human. This is essentially the most bittersweet of human experiences. Wrapping up, he said: “But now, we must continue to speak to Goldie, if only in our thoughts, so that she will know that we remember her and all the happiness and beauty that she brought into our lives and that she is not alone. “Lives are like rivers: Eventually they go where they must. Not where we want them to.” “RIP OLUWABIMPE SUSAN GOLDIE HARVEY. (1981 – 2013).” SPONSORED