When the pandemic rocked African economies and society at large, the biggest challenge was finding ways to adjust. Schools across the continent had to close, and as a result, they had to quickly take steps to educate pupils using distance learning techniques. While those that were equipped to adjust  started online or hybrid-learning modules, others, particularly those in rural areas, faced massive challenges such as lack of access to digital tools. However, there are efforts  to give young people access to better learning equipment. Many learners on the continent currently rely on smart phones to continue learning during this digital age – but it is crucial for learners and parents to be aware of the available and affordable options to help learners prepare for the classroom of the future. According to HP Nigeria’s Country Head, Emmanuel Asika, there is a great need to equip learners who are tomorrow’s leaders with the tools they require in the new normal.He noted that buying a laptop for  children/students would  not only help them succeed at school, but also prepare them for future challenges and help them to acquire critical skills necessary to thrive in the digital era. A report by the United Nations Educational Sociocultural Organisation (UNESCO) said  73 per cent  of African countries used some online strategies in September 2020. However, access to devices and connectivity wasn’t widespread, and even in places where technology was available, learners often felt unprepared to participate in classes digitally. The fourth industrial revolution – sped up by the pandemic – means that digital skills are no longer a luxury. They are essential, not only for immediate access to basic rights such as education, but to bequeath a great future to  a generation of young people who will live in a world with jobs not yet imagined.   Nationalism key to development     Setting standards for PWDs: My story, by Corps member     Eschew unethical practices, students told   - Advertisement - While sustained efforts continue to ensure the digital divide is minimised, the ability of learners to operate in a digital world is paramount. The importance of a functional personal computer cannot be overemphasised. It makes learning easy from anywhere,on  or off campus. A thin, light notebook computer makes studying on the go interesting. The right laptop would enable seamless viewing on a micro-edge display with an ultra-narrow bezel. Nevertheless,  when computer manufacturing company, HP recently announced new additions to its Personal Systems portfolio called the HP Learning Companions, the HP 14 notebook & HP 15 notebook, powered by the 10th & 11th Generation Intel Core i3 processors, many students were delighted. These additions would encourage studying without interruption because of long battery life,  lifelike remote learning brought about the new normal and multitasking. With the new system of things,learners should be equipped with the right tools that encourage self-development and success.