From all indications, the premiums paid for obtaining Third Party insurance by vehicle owners is set to be increased further by the relevant authorities. Going by feelers from the insurance industry, the premiums paid by private vehicle users may be raised from the prevailing N5,000 to N7,500 by the end of the first quarter of this year. The amount to be  paid by commercial vehicle drivers, who now pay  N7,500, is however yet to be ascertained. One of the reasons for the bid to raise the premium is what industry watchers describe as the increased inflationary spirals and the attendant increase in the cost of vehicle parts and repairs. This steep increase in the cost of asset replacement and repairs is making many insurance firms to operate at a loss when major claims come from any class of motor insurance. In 2014, the insurance industry regulator, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) approved the raising of insurance premiums for Third Party claims from N1,000 to N5,000, which was then a 400% increase. Since then, not only has inflation rate increased from 15% in 2014 to over 15.63% as at December 2021, the import of vehicles and spare parts is more expensive due to the further weakening of our national currency. Matters have been worsened by the unanticipated coronavirus pandemic, which had negative implications for the automotive industry supply chain, leading to further escalation in vehicle replacement, repairs and maintenance. However, the challenge facing the insurance companies with regards to vehicle insurance premiums goes far beyond simply hiking the premium of Third Party or other types of insurance premiums. The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Act stipulates that every automobile plying our highways must have at least a Third Party Motor Insurance Policy. Going by the estimates of the Nigerian Insurance Association (NIA), only approximately three million out of the 13 million vehicles on Nigerian roads have insurance cover; over 77% are uninsured. Of those motor vehicles which should be covered by the Third Party insurance or other policies, a sizeable number are believed to parade fake or forged documents. This is likely to increase when premiums are increased. But, this in itself is an  indictment of the law enforcement agencies such as the FRSC, Vehicle Inspection Officers (VIO) and the traffic unit of the Nigerian Police Force which are meant to ensure that, as much as possible, all automobiles carry the minimum standard of insurance as stipulated by law.   Ode to reading     Shame of a nation     Judicial overhaul   - Advertisement - Third Party motor insurance provides the policy holder with the necessary protection in case of liabilities incurred in the event of accidents with a third party’s vehicles. The policy holder is covered to the sum of N1 million in incidents of damages to another party’s property while the policy holder also has unlimited cover in case of death or injury to a third party. We are of the view that even if insurance premiums are significantly reviewed downwards today, this will not stop those who are so inclined from seeking to procure false documents. But the higher the possibility of their being apprehended for violating the traffic regulations, the less likely large number of motorists will desire to patronise peddlers of fake policies. All too often in our urban centres, the various traffic control and law enforcement agencies can be seen waving down vehicles arbitrarily to check the particulars of the owners or find out if such vehicles have the requisite papers permitting them to be on the road. Unfortunately, the general perception is that such law enforcement agents are only out to squeeze money illegally out of erring motorists than they are in bringing the latter before the law. This may be true, though, to some extent. Perhaps one way to enhance the efficacy of law enforcement officers in this regard is to increasingly use technology in detecting motorists who violate the law, including those who procure fake documents or do not even have the requisite documents in the first place. Insurance industry watchers indicate that the incidents of fake insurance policies paraded by some motorists have been substantially reduced in the aftermath of the introduction of the Nigerian Insurance Industry Database (NIID). The NIID is said to capture an estimated 4.3 million of the 16-17 million vehicles that ply Nigerian roads. The more the human element is reduced in detecting, apprehending and making violating motorists to face the law, the less will be the individual law officer’s latitude to exercise arbitrariness and impunity in the name of enforcing the law. Moreover, the insurance companies have a responsibility to sensitise the public on the numerous advantages of obtaining insurance cover for their vehicles. Most motorists are unaware of these. SPONSORED