The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), says it plans to introduce self-service registration outlets in Abuja and Lagos to leverage the digital competence of its computer-savvy candidates. JAMB disclosed this in its Weekly Bulletin from the Office of the Registrar, on Monday in Abuja. It said that the system is expected to reduce crowds at its accredited Computer-Based Tests (CBT) Centres in both cities. The idea, the board explained, is to advance the digital competence of candidates who can do the registration on their own. It added that it is also to expand the registration access points, in line with the extant federal government’s COVID-19 protocols. - Advertisement - The board expressed confidence that the service provider, Bankfort, had assured of an immense potential of the seamless registration mode. Similarly, JAMB also stated that it is set to incur not less than N50 million as added commission to its financial vendors. This followed the introduction of its cashless regime in its 2022 registration exercise. The bulletin quoted the Registrar of the board, Prof. Is-haq Oloyede, as saying that the additional financial burden was the price the board is prepared to pay.   NARTO vows to withdraw service over operation cost     Gunmen attack Kogi Area Police Command     ASUU begins mobilisation for another strike in varsities   This, Oloyede stated, followed the board’s concern to the plight of Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME), and Direct Entry (DE) candidates in the hands of shylock CBT centre owners. He said: “The measure would put a stop to other sharp practices that usually follow the payment of direct service charges for registration at these centres.” He also added that candidates are expected to purchase an e-PIN for N3,500 as subsidized by the federal government, N500 compulsory reading text and a N700 regulated charge for CBT centres. “All the purchases cost N4,700 as candidates are expected to now pay the regulated N700 charge for CBT centres along with the cost for e-PIN. “The board would later transmit all accrued entitlements to respective CBT centres on a weekly basis or any timeframe agreeable to respective centres, to curtail all noticeable infractions.” Oloyede also stated that, while the board now spearheads the collection of the N700 service charge on behalf of the centres, it would be taking on the additional responsibility of N25 commission. He said that the N25 commission amounted to over N50 million in 2021. Oloyede, however, urged all financial institutions to be involved in the UTME/DE registration to live up to expectations. According to him, the vendors would be held responsible for any act of misdemeanor or infraction committed by their agents. (NAN)