Chukwuka Monye, 43, believes the time has come for young Nigerians to take charge of the affairs of the nation. The social innovator and philanthropist recently declared his intention to contest next year’s presidential election in his hometown, Onicha-Ugbo in Aniocha North Local Government Area of Delta State. The University of Oxford-trained innovation strategist, who anchored his declaration on the theme: ‘Our Future is Now, outlined three focal points for the rapid transformation of the country: security, institutional reforms, and job creation. He said: “Our Future is Now is a reminder that it is time for young people to take charge of the affairs of the nation.” Monye believes that a global economy can be created out of things that Nigerians are passionate about such as music, arts, and technology. Born on July 21, 1979, he is often referred to as a bridge between generations because he has been impacting lives through the building of businesses and mentoring of leaders. He is the Founder of Ciuci Consulting, one of the country’s leading operations management consulting firms. Monye told a cheering crowd of supporters, mostly youth, that he is uniquely positioned by age and experience to serve as the bridge builder for the nation to realiSe its desired future. He said: “I have lived a life of faith–one steadfast in our Creator and another in our human capacity to influence our own destinies. Read Also: Why Tinubu should succeed Buhari, by Oladejo   Oil belongs to Niger Delta, says Ekpo     Why Tinubu should succeed Buhari, by Oladejo     PDP ready to receive new members ahead 2023- Tambuwal   - Advertisement - “So much of who we are depends on the choices we make. I firmly believe with all my heart that if together, we make the right decisions that employ the entire human, mineral, and natural resources we have been endowed with, we will see a better Nigeria in our lifetime. “For this reason, I, Chukwuka Monye present myself to serve as the president of this great nation, Nigeria. I love Nigeria and I believe that Nigerians matter and deserve a better today”. Lamenting the state of the nation, he regretted the alarming poverty rate, saying that 83 million people are living below the poverty line in the country. His words: “The poverty rate is alarming, with the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics (NBS) in 2020, estimating that 83 million people live below the poverty line, a figure that equates to the population of 20 of the least populated states in Nigeria. These people go to bed hungry with many of them not knowing where their next meal will come from.” He said it is unfortunate that Nigerians are at a high point of hopelessness and despair. This, he added, is because the foundational structures of the country are at the brink of collapse with institutions such as justice, education, health, and the security infrastructure unable to effectively meet the needs of Nigerians. The presidential aspirant who is yet to reveal the political party on whose platform he hopes to contest the election said: “I represent a generation that desires opportunities to express their innovative capacities. I represent a generation that desires justice, peace, and equity. I represent a generation that excels and has attempted to create the best we can, despite the limited empowerment we have received.”