Queen Moremi Ajasoro (QMA), Bukunmi Akinwale, on Sunday said that the Nigerian culture detests nudity and should be discouraged among the female gender, especially celebrities. The 22-year-old, level-four student of Psychology at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. According to her, no Nigerian tradition supports nudity, which means ladies exposing their bodies shouldn’t do so in the name of fashion, celebrity or style. “Western culture has made us believe nudity is normal, but it is not because a lady’s body is to be covered and not displayed,” she said. Akinwale, who also is a caterer, commended the current 44th Miss Nigeria, Shatu Garko from Kano State, for not abandoning her religion and culture during and after the contest. - Advertisement - She lauded her bold steps in ensuring she did not follow the trend of exposing her body just to contest or win a big pageantry as Miss Nigeria. “The fact that Miss Shatu didn’t go out of her religious line (use of hijab) stood her out of every other contestant, it made her unique which earned her the win. “It shows how committed she is to her religion and her high level of decency which is first of its kind,” she told NAN. Queen Moremi Ajasoro is a cultural pageant that promotes modesty, decency and humility. “The QMA pageantry process follows a cultural pattern and it has been a success ever since it started. “People with different religions and from different backgrounds are allowed to participate in the contest, and every individual is allowed to go on with their religious practice. “Our culture is being appreciated through our mode of dressing which involves wearing native attires. Lectures are given on the importance of traditional medicine. “The contest goes as far as lecturing on how to make our native tie and dye attires (Adire). “The contest is not just a beauty pageant, it’s also an empowerment programme. It teaches moral values and importance of greetings and respect for elders,” she said.   Pregnant woman, eight others burnt to death in Kwara…     Family in anguish over 58-year-old contractor’s…     Woman jailed six years for cocaine trafficking   According to the cultural queen, “adoption of western cultures has made many of us to forget how to reverence our elderly persons, which is not meant to be”. She further explained that culture creates a sense of identity which specifies the tribe of origin and so must not be allowed to fade away. She said: “Africans have our own culture and it should be promoted in all ways, our traditions cannot be allowed to go into extinction. “Religion is a separate thing from a contest. Irrespective of our religion, it shouldn’t hinder us from participating in any form of pageantry. “Beauty contest shouldn’t involve body exposure because it does not promote our culture, rather it increases immorality among ladies. “Beauty is not determined by ladies’ exposure of their bodies because a lady can be so beautiful in a fully covered dress just as our current Nigerian queen, Miss Shatu. “Pageant doesn’t affect religion in anyway and it shouldn’t also tamper with our traditions. We must realise that nakedness is not fashion and it wouldn’t be,” the cultural queen told NAN. The 2021 cultural queen stressed that there is decency in covering up. A lady who is well dressed earns the respect she deserves. “I believe Miss Shatu is going to be given every support to execute her projects excellently well, as she has become a cultural pride to our country,” she said. Queen Akinwale said her vision during her one-year rule is to educate the youth on mental health care awareness. NAN reports that the Queen Moremi Cultural pageant is an initiative of the Ooni of Ife, under the leadership of Princess Ronke Ademiluyi, founder, African Fashion show. QMA pageantry is held annually with the aim of promoting Nigerian culture, training and empowering young girls with special focus on the Odua tradition and lineage. (NAN) SPONSORED