Leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Enugu State are at loggerheads over the zoning of the state’s 2023 governorship ticket. The zoning debate has pitted the senator representing Enugu East, Chimaroke Nnamani, against a former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu who represents Enugu West in the Senate. Nnamani is said to have rallied key PDP leaders in the state to back the zoning of the ticket to Enugu East, a move Ekweremadu described as a “gang up” against Enugu West. A former governor of old Anambra State, Chief Jim Nwobodo; former Enugu governor, Sullivan Chime; a former Senate President, Ken Nnamani; and a former PDP national chairman, Dr. Okwesilieze Nwodo are said to be backing Senator Nnamani. The pro-East zoning leaders are also said to have secured the buy-in of the incumbent governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi on the project. - Advertisement - However, the Enugu Rescue Group (ERG), a political interest group loyal to Ekweremadu, has countered that the proponents of the zoning arrangement were out to frustrate the quest by the Enugu people for quality leadership in 2023. Ekweremadu is said to be nursing a governorship ambition in 2023. The Nnamani group has insisted that the decision to zone the 2023 governorship ticket to Enugu East was based on a subsisting rotational zoning arrangement put in place since 1999. Nnamani, who was governor from 1999 to 2007, is from Enugu East; Sullivan Chime who succeeded him from 2007 to 2015 is from Enugu East; while Ugwuanyi who got elected in 2015 and who will be completing his two terms of eight years in 2023 is from Enugu North. The position of the Nnamani group is that since the three senatorial districts have produced the governor in turn, the ticket ought to return to Enugu East in 2023 for a fresh rotation start.   Enugu shuts markets, offices as council poll holds Wednesday     Youths hail Dickson as varsity produces maiden graduates     Governors meet Monday over new APC convention date   In a statement in Abuja yesterday, Nnamani commended Nwobodo, Nwodo, Ken Nnamani, Chime and Governor Ugwuanyi for “backing” the zoning of the ticket to Enugu East. “After reviewing the principled stance of respected elders and statesmen, which included four former governors and a former Senate President, I am convinced more than ever before that Gov. Ugwuanyi and the political leaders in the state will be guided by a keen sense of history and conscience in picking the next governor of the state from Enugu East zone,” Nnamani stated. The ERG, a pro-Ekweremadu group, faulted Nnamani, arguing that there has never been any governorship zoning arrangement in Enugu PDP. In a statement by its National Coordinator, Ejike Iloh, the ERG described the purported zoning agreement as “fictitious and elites conspiracy to grab power”, saying that the plot will not work. It warned those preparing to bandy a purported zoning document to remember that forgery remained a serious offence under Nigerian laws. Iloh wondered when Dr. Nnamani became the spokesperson for former governors and elders of PDP leaders in the state. The group said: “We have observed the reckless utterances and claims of Dr. Chimaroke Nnamani and wonder when he became the spokesperson of all former governors and Enugu political leaders, including those he does not see eye to eye with. “We make bold to say that by verifiable records on the contests for the governorship of Enugu State since 1998/1999, there is nothing like zoning principle in the state. “Power has gone round the three geopolitical zones, but not based on any predefined zoning principle, as Nnamani seeks to sell to unsuspecting Nigerians. “Where was the purported zoning principle when himself from Enugu East was sponsored by Senator Jim Nwobodo to snatch the gubernatorial ticket of the PDP from Chief Nduka Agu from Enugu West, who was sponsored by another former governor, Dr. Okwesilieze Nwodo in 1998, in an epic battle?” ERG said it was more interested in the best hands emerging the governor of Enugu in 2023, regardless of where the candidate comes from. SPONSORED