Nigeria’s leading airline, Air Peace has announced its readiness to resume direct scheduled flights to Dubai, United Arab Emirates on March 1. The airline’s spokesperson, Mr Stanley Olisa, confirmed the development in a statement on Friday in Lagos. Olisa said that the airline was also set to launch flight operations into Niamey, Niger, on Feb. 25 and in Kinshasha and Malabo in first quarter of the year. He said that the Lagos-Dubai-Lagos flights would operate three days weekly from any of its domestic routes through its Lagos hub. “We are happy to inform the flying public that in tandem with our commitment to provide more flight connectivity and meeting the air travel needs of Nigerians, we are restarting our UAE operations, but with Dubai as the destination, and not Sharjah. - Advertisement - “We abundantly appreciate the vital role played by the Nigerian government in making this possible,” Olisa said. The spokesperson said that before the first quarter runs out, the airline would begin scheduled flights to Kinshasha, DR Congo and Malabo, Equatorial Guinea.   I built my page with my backside – Janemena     Gunmen kill 11, injure many in Southern Kaduna     PHOTOS: Dignitaries bid Late Head of State Shonekan farewell   According to him, this is to enlarge its footprints in West Africa and offer the flying public more network options. He said that Niamey flights would operate from Abuja and Kano on Tuesdays, Fridays and Sundays with the Hopper jets. Olisa noted that the airline had been operating scheduled commercial flights into the UAE since July 2019, and would continue to scale up its service delivery to surpass the expectations of air travelers,. The spokesperson said that this was especially with the activation of its ambitious fleet modernisation scheme and a renewed commitment to unequalled customer experience. He added that Air Peace had also been designated by the Federal Government to fly into other international destinations such as Guangzhou-China, Delhi-India, U.K and Houston-US. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the airline leads the industry with 20 domestic routes, six regional routes and two international destinations. It presently operates a modern fleet of 34 aircraft, including five brand new E195-E2s and five Airbus 320s. (NAN)