Guaranty Trust Holding Company Plc (GTCO Plc) has  acquired 100 per cent equity stake in Investment One Pension Managers Limited (IOPM) and Investment One Funds Management Limited (IOFM). The group yesterday  notified the Nigerian Exchange Group (NGX) and the public of both acquisitions. The IOPM and IOFM were held by Investment One Financial Services Limited. The acquisitions aligned with GTCO Plc’s aspirations to operate across the financial services sector value chain in Africa. The moves would also expand the product and service offerings of the Group into the assets and funds management segments while positioning GTCO as a dominant player for all critical financial services. The IOPM was licensed by the Nigerian Pensions Commission (PenCom) to operate as a Pension Fund Administrator in Nigeria while the IOFM is licensed by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). - Advertisement - The IOFM was established to undertake fund management and investment services on behalf of clients and manage collective investments schemes as a corporate investment adviser.   Supreme Court fixes judgment for May 6 in Rivers, Imo…     Why Igboho’s detention was extended, by lawyer     Our position on Igboho, Kanu, Abba Kyari, by Malami   “The seller was regulated by the SEC and offers a wide range of services including Investment Management, Trust Services, Financial Advisory Services, Security Brokerage and Pension Funds Management. Forthwith, the Companies cease to be subsidiaries of the Seller and have become wholly owned subsidiaries of GTCO Plc.,” the statement said. The Group Chief Executive Officer of Guaranty Trust Holding Company Plc, Segun Agbaje, said: “We are very excited to get started on the next phase of our incredible journey to driving Africa’s growth by making end-to-end financial services easily accessible to every African and African Businesses by leveraging Technology and Strategic Partnerships. As a bank, we were always looking to meet every customer need; with our corporate reorganisation, we will be able to do more to help our customers thrive in this new world of digital technologies and unprecedented possibilities”. He explained that while the group is evolving as an organisation, it remains committed to its founding values which have endeared its brand to millions of people across Africa and beyond, and which continue to drive its financial success. “As a Proudly African and Truly International brand, we will continue to live by these values – of excellence, hard work and integrity, even as we create faster, cheaper, safer and products for people and businesses through every stage of life,” Agbaje said. The acquisitions were facilitated by Exotix Advisory Limited and Vetiva Capital Management Limited as Financial Advisers, Aluko & Oyebode as Legal Adviser and Deloitte & Touche (Nigeria) as Financial Due Diligence Adviser. GTCO Plc is a diversified financial services company with N5.144 trillion in assets, providing commercial banking services and non-banking financial services across eleven countries, including the United Kingdom. The Group offers a wide range of banking as well as non-banking financial services in Nigeria, West Africa, East Africa, and the United Kingdom. The Group is rated B- by S&P, a reflection of the Group’s stability and reputation of being a well-established franchise with strong asset quality and consistent excellent financial performance.