Valentine’s Day is the one day in the year where love is officially celebrated and recognised. Lovers everywhere are pressured with expressing their love with gifts and cards. It might seem like a good idea to take your partner somewhere you’ve been before and you know they like. But this is Valentine’s Day. It’s your time to show them that you are spontaneous! find the best rated local restaurant in your area. Get booking now as they fill up fast. - Advertisement - We’ve all been there, so desperate to impress someone that we have a few drinks for Dutch courage before the actual date. Then when you’re on the date you end up drinking so fast because you’re nervous. This is not a good idea, as it is likely that you will end up getting drunk and talking nonsense and making a fool out of yourself. Valentine’s Day is one day of the year that should be spent with a loved one alone. We all know that two’s company and three’s a crowd. So no matter how sorry you feel for your single friend, don’t bring them along to your date night. This is only going to infuriate your partner and leave you in the doghouse for quite some time. If you’re thinking about dumping your partner, then don’t do it on Valentine’s Day. That memory will live with them forever. So get your timing right. A couple of days before isn’t good either as they more than likely have already started making plans. This rule can also be applied to other big celebrations such as birthdays\   Kate Henshaw shares throwback photos, gushes for ageless…     Why I want to travel the world – Regina Daniels     I love to grieve privately – Tonto Dikeh   At times we are tempted to judge the strength of our relationships by the philosophies surrounding the “lovers day”. Build your own philosophies of life and live by them. Do not rush to say it’s over. It is a common thing for most people to plan their first-time dates for Valentine’s day. They see it as a good opportunity to meet that newly found love. In as much as the idea in totality is not bad, l encourage you to take caution. There are people who take advantage of some of these festive occasions to harm their victims. Talking about your ex to your new partner is normally a no-go area but even more so on Valentine’s Day. By talking about past relationships your date will only get the impression that you’re not over them. On Valentine’s Day your partner wants you to tell them they are the most special person in the world – not second best! Valentine’s Day may be the most romantic day of the year, so it can be very easy to get carried away. So if you’re going to make a promise to your loved one on the big day, make sure it’s one that you can fulfil. Otherwise, you’re just setting yourself up for a fall. It’s better to kill someone with the truth than please them with a lie. If you do not have a partner to take you out on this special day, make up your mind not to flow with the tide. Be decisive, make your own rules and abide by them. On this note, do not spoil your friends’ special time by tagging along and ruining their dates. Be yourself and you will appreciate the peace that comes with doing this. Don’t allow yourself to fall into a depression by spending Valentine’s Day alone. Get with a group of friends and spend some time together or call your family and schedule a movie. Do everything but sit in front of the TV and watch a good movie that will leave you questioning your single status. Valentine’s Day doesn’t have to be a day for just couples, it’s supposed to be a day that rejoices in love and that love can be shared amongst friends and/or family members.