The Military Pension Board (MPB) has commenced payment of 25 percent of the 24 months arrears of minimum wage increments to eligible military retirees on its payroll. Chairman of the Board, Rear Admiral S.A Lawal, disclosed that the payment is the first out of four installments that will be made to all pensioners entitled to the arrears of minimum wage increment on pensions. Briefing Defence Correspondents, Lawal stressed: “This payment is basically for arrears of increment in pensions of military retirees who are on MPB payroll between 18 April 2019 and 30 April 2021”. According to him: “The Military Pensions Board (MPB) extends its compliments to our esteemed military retirees and wishes to inform them that the Board started paying 25 percent of the arrears of minimum wage increments to eligible military retirees on MPB payroll yesterday Thursday 3 February 2022. “This payment is the first out of 4 installmental payments that will be made to all pensioners entitled to the arrears of minimum wage increment on pensions. Our esteemed pensioners are please to note that this installmental payment arrangement is the outcome of the discussions and agreement reached between the Board and the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning for quarterly releases of the appropriated sum in the first month of each quarter.   Attack on Aregbesola’s Campaign Office, NSCDC, Police deploy…     Plateau SUBEB disclaims online advert on teacher…     Buhari appoints Olatunji NDPB pioneer national commissioner   - Advertisement - “Thus, all things being equal, subsequent payments of the outstanding arrears will be in the months of April, July and October 2022. “Additionally, I would like to further inform that all Next of Kins (NOKs) of deceased military pensioners who are eligible for same arrears would be paid the minimum wage increments together with the shortfall of the death benefits earlier paid to them. Accordingly, Next of Kins of deceased military pensioners who died between April 2019 and April 2021 are advised to contact their banks for these payments. “Furthermore, the Board would like to reiterate that this payment is basically for arrears of increment in pensions of military retirees who are on MPB payroll between 18 April 2019 and 30 April 2021. “In addition, it is pertinent to state that pensions of senior officers of the rank of Major General and above or its equivalents are not affected by the consequential adjustments on pensions occasioned by the new National Minimum Wage (Amendment) Act 2019. Hence, they are not entitled to the 24 months minimum wage arrears.”