Protected and Conserved Areas serve as refugia for many threatened species of plants and animals, including the most at risk species such as the African forest elephant, which was recently reclassified as ‘Critically Endangered’. Nigeria currently has seven (7) national parks and numerous forest reserves. Many of them face severe threats driven by anthropogenic pressure such as unsustainable logging, commodity production, poaching etc. The Okomu National Park in Ovia South-East LGA, Edo State for example has lost a large percentage of its natural forest to rapid deforestation in the last 10 years. In recognition of the critical role communities play in forest conservation the Society for Sustainability and Conservation Education for Rural Areas (SCERA) in collaboration with the management of Okomu National Park organised a 2-day workshop between the 15th and 16th of December, 2021 to implement a Site-level Assessment of Governance and Equity (SAGE). The multi-stakeholder workshop brought together actor groups from 12 communities around the Okomu National Park and other stakeholders, including the Federal Ministry of Environment, the Nigerian Conservation Foundation, Office of the Chief Security Officer of Edo State, the Nigerian Police Force, Udo Division, and Okomu Oil Palm Company. These stakeholders and the local communities were engaged in discussions to understand key issues facing the park and propose actions that would improve the situation and promote good governance. In his remark, the Conservator of Parks, represented by ACP Lucy Anthony Ogar, Okomu National Park, said that communities are indispensable in the protection and sustainability of the park and the workshop provides that rare opportunity for better cooperation for the benefit of both the park and communities.   How to Play at Online Casinos with Minimum Investment?     Open Letter to the National Chairman, Peoples Democratic…     Best Gift Card Trading App In Nigeria – Say Hi To…   Stakeholders at the workshop expressed optimism that results from the workshop will have far-reaching positive outcomes for the park. They urged the organizers to replicate the assessment methodology in other protected and conservation areas in the country. The SCERA National Programme Coordinator, Dr. Jacinta Abalaka, said “this is the first time the SAGE assessment will be conducted in Nigeria and Okomu National Park is the first national park to host the assessment”. In a similar development, a Social Assessment for Protected Areas (SAPA) was carried out in the Amurum Forest Reserve, Jos East LGA, Plateau State. The assessment comprised a series of meetings with the communities bordering the Reserve, household surveys within the communities and two stakeholders’ workshops carried out on 8th of December, 2021 and 2nd of February, 2022. Bringing together an array of stakeholders from the communities, academia and civil society, the assessment was carried out to identify the social impact of the protected area on the livelihood and wellbeing of host communities and propose solutions on how to reduce the negative impact and increase the positive impact on the wellbeing of the communities. Both assessments are the initiatives of SCERA, a local conservation and environmental education organisation based in Jos, Plateau State and Abuja, Federal Capital Territory, Nigeria, funded by the European Union and the ACP Group of States through the BIOPAMA Action Component. In total, close to 70 stakeholders drawn from 15 community groups/community-based organizations, government institutions, private companies and civil society organizations were engaged during the SAGE and SAPA assessments. Both assessments were carried out in collaboration with the International Institute for Environment and Development (IIED). While the lead facilitator for SAGE was a social expert, from Copper Belt University, Zambia, Mr. Donald Chikumbi, the lead facilitator for SAPA was Dr. Soladoye Iwajomo from the Department of Zoology, University of Lagos. The SAPA was also supported by co-facilitators from A. P. Leventis Ornithological Research Institute (APLORI), University of Jos and EDEN Creation, a conservation organisation based in Jos.