The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has kicked against any move to remove Labour from the Exclusive Legislative List. In a statement in Abuja by its president, Ayuba Wabba, NLC noted that labour issues are currently domiciled in the Second Schedule, Legislative Powers, Part 1, Exclusive List, Item 34. “For the sake of our national interest, security and industrial harmony, labour should not be one of the items that should be devolved to the states,” he said. Explaining how it came to be on the Exclusive List, Wabba said the nation-states legislation on Labour was driven substantially by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions, protocols and recommendations as well as other instruments domesticated through the Acts of Parliament. He said this explained the near uniformity of labour laws across the world and relative global industrial order, harmony and an attraction for foreign investment. - Advertisement - The labour leader recalled that 17 days after Independence in 1960 under a democratic government, Nigeria rectified and domesticated ILO Conventions 87 and 98, guarantying the right to organise and collectively bargain.   JAMB shifts UTME registration kickoff by one week     NIA: over N11b #EndSARS claims paid so far     Aviation workers suspend strike ultimatum   Giving the historical perspective of labour movement across the world, Wabba recalled that the ILO was created in 1919 by the Versailles Peace Treaty, ending World War 1 along with the League of Nations to address widespread demands for social justice and improved living standards for the world’s working people. The NLC president said this had survived World War 2, adding that it currently serves as a specialised agency of the UN dedicated to promoting labour standards globally. “In the light of this, deregulating labour to the states will inevitably create intractable problems. At the membership level, the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) are not sovereign, which is a basis for Nigeria’s ILO membership. “Secondly, a corpus of labour legislation across the 36 states and FCT will almost certainly create a judicial nightmare. “Thirdly, investors will be scared away as they will consider this as an unnecessary addition to the already hostile operating environment. At the level of workers who often act in the national interest, this will whittle down patriotic influence. “In the light of this, we will strongly advocate against removing labour from the Exclusive Legislative List. Not even during the military era was this contemplated,” he said.