The Ojora of Ijora/Iganmu Kingdom, Oba Abdulfatai Oyeyinka Aromire has called on the Federal Government to empower the Nigerian Police Force with modern sophisticated equipments to tackle insecurity in the country. He said there is nothing stopping the government from providing the police with sophisticated equipment like those provided the Air Force, Navy and Army, to make them more effective. The Monarch disclosed this at his palace when he organised get-together party for senior police officers to celebrate one of the daughters of the land, Oluwatoyin Iyabode Agbaminoja, who just promoted to the rank of Deputy Commissioner of Police. “There is nothing that prevents the Nigerian police from getting some of these sophisticated vehicles and to be doing surveillance on these roads.   Former Ghana president, Gowon to attend Awolowo posthumous…     Nigerian-born Ecosystem builders to get $2.8m from Canada…     Lagos committed to quality service, humanity –…   “The Nigeria Police is the best in the whole world. They are ready at hours to work but criminals, such as armed robbers, kidnappers, even ordinary thugs are killing police officers just because they have more sophisticated equipments than Police. - Advertisement - “I want a secured community and nation at large. I will continue to pray that the security agents will do more to ensure this agitations and expectations by Nigerians are made,” the Kabiyesi, added. Oba Ojora, appealed to all traditional leaders within his domain to get  involved in community policing, saying he will forever uphold zero tolerance for indiscipline, crime and others social vices. He extended his message to parents to watch the movement of their children and wards, to avoid police arrest. He advised them to “avoid collecting money and other valuables worth huge monies from children that are not officially employed. Question such child, where he got the money. Stop celebrating a child who engaged in internet fraud, popularly known as yahoo-yahoo. I will not hesitate to arrest and prosecute whoever is found trying to distort the existing peace in Ijora and Iganmu Kingdom,” Oba Ojora said. He pledged his continuous support for all activities and strategies that will foster peaceful coexistence in his domain. SPONSORED