You can’t miss the headlines: “Julius Berger diversifies into cashew processing”, “Julius Berger commits to zero waste, diversifies into cashew processing”, “Julius Berger diversifies into agric, cashew processing”, “Julius Berger diversifies into agric processing, sets up Nigeria’s first plant in Lagos”, “Julius Berger diversifies into agriculture, to process cashew in Lagos”. “As construction struggles, Nigeria’s Julius Berger turns to cashew”, etc. The headlines tell it all: construction giant Julius Berger responds to dwindling revenue amidst a sluggish construction market. The answer: diversification. Yes, diversification. The same concept that successive Nigerian governments, federal or state, have been mouthing for decades without any serious or sustained effort to actualise. Thus, the country’s economy has since the discovery of crude oil in commercial quantities in the late 1950s remained heavily dependent on the black gold, its revenue undulating with the vagaries of the global crude market. A statement by Julius Berger Nigeria’s (JBN) media relations officer, Moses Duku, said the plant would be located in Epe, Lagos State. In the statement, the cashew project’s commodity and marketing Manager, Oyindamola Asaaju, said the plant would implement a no-waste operational practice. Asaaju was speaking at the Agricultural Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) Conference, held at the NAF Conference Centre, Abuja, the statement added. - Advertisement - “Clear national occupational standard and demand-driven international product quality would define and drive the company’s operations and productivity in the cashew processing industry in Nigeria, where only 5% of Nigeria’s production is currently locally processed,” Asaaju said. Julius Berger’s deft move to diversify marks the difference between a private-driven business and public or government business, particularly in Nigeria.   Osun primary     Mob justice in police’s face     The mirror effect   - Advertisement - JBN is an acclaimed construction leader in the country. It has constructed most of its roads and bridges. But the construction industry in Nigeria, Africa’s biggest economy, has suffered at least two major recessions in recent years, affecting the company’s fortunes. The company’s shares has nosedived from N126.96 in August 2008 to about N26 last week. This is a major dip and a signal that the company would go under if the situation was not reversed. The company has two options: think out of the box or close shop. Since the latter is no option for it as a business enterprise with shareholders to render account to, it has opted for diversification of its revenue base in order to change the narrative. What the company has done is the rational thing to do in the circumstance. Even plants and animals, faced with extinction, engage in desperate search for survival. Not only has Julius Berger opted to diversify into the agriculture, it has done its homework to see a major area of need and plugged into it. Nigeria is a major player in the global cashew industry. Indeed, the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), says Nigeria has untapped potential of $3.4 million USD from export of cashew kernels. This is too huge to be ignored. Unfortunately, the country had, as usual, remained contented with its potential status in cashew processing as with most other sectors of the economy. The country has largely been exporting raw cashew nuts without adding any value and reaping peanuts in the process. That narrative may soon change for the better, with a giant like Julius Berger going into the cashew processing business. Nigera’s perpetually broke governments should take tutorials from the construction giant on how to think creatively in challenging times. Our governments must stop this idea of retrenchment and subsidy removal as panacea to dwindling revenues, unless when they are used to correct certain structural imbalances in the economy. Often, these could be counterproductive. The ability to take their respective countries out of particularly difficult times is the hallmark of great leaders, not when things are rosy. Nigeria is blessed with a lot of untapped resources such that no state in the federation should be talking of poverty if the leaders can only put on their thinking caps. If Nigeria is an acclaimed poverty capital of the world, it is nothing but a reflection of the leadership. To turn things around, the country must learn to put round pegs in round holes. Mediocrity has to give way to merit. We cannot continue to lament the dwindling fortunes of the country’s currency if all we do is export raw items – crude oil, cashew, cocoa, etc., only to import them back as finished products at exorbitant prices. It is only by adding value to them that we can compete with other global players and reap bountifully in a way that would impact the exchange rate and make life less nightmarish for the people. We must retrace our steps by weaning off the economy from crude oil and diversify to enhance our revenue base. SPONSORED