The National Sugar Development Council (NSDC) has commended the level of progress made by LASUCO Sugar Company Limited, a subsidiary of BUA Foods Plc, in the development of the  sugar sector. Its Executive Secretary, Zacch Adedeji, gave the commendation during a visit to LASUCO’s 20,000-hectare plantation in Lafiagi, Kwara State. Adedeji thanked BUA Foods for its commitment to the Backward Integration Programme (BIP) and expressed satisfaction with the level of progress made at the integrated sugar factory. He added that Nigeria was a step closer to achieving self-sufficiency in sugar production. He said President Muhammadu Buhari-led government was committed to revamping the sugar industry through the Nigeria Sugar Master Plan (NSMP) which has the capacity to ensure that Nigeria grows what she eats and eats what she grows while providing job opportunities for millions of Nigerians. “At the sugar council, our aim is to locally produce 70 per cent of Nigeria’s sugar consumption which is at 1.7metric tons per annum. LASUCO is expected to play a pivotal role in achieving this goal, as it is expected to contribute up to 25 per cent of the targeted local consumption based on its capacity,” Adedeji said. - Advertisement - The NSDC boss added: “I am impressed with the level of progress I have seen here. All that’s required is to further develop the field to which I have seen the commitment of the BUA team to meet that.” The company is working towards supporting farmers through an out-grower scheme to increase sugar cane production and provide a springboard for expansion of its local sugar production while impacting the host community and Nigerian economy at large. Over the years, BUA Foods has invested heavily in the backward integration program of the Federal Government under the supervision of the NSDC.   Custodian Investment’s turnover rises by 14% to N85.5b     GTCO acquires Investment One Pension Managers, Funds Mgt     Explosion: No fears on Nigeria’s oil output   When fully completed, the over $300 million integrated sugar factory will comprise of a sugar mill with a capacity of 10,000 tons of cane per day, a sugar refinery with an annual capacity of 220, 000 metric tonnes, a 35 megawatts power generating plant to fuel the factory with potential to supply the national grid, and a 20 million litres per annum ethanol production plant. The plantation also has a 3km airstrip of international standard, built to support its operations. Addressing the NSDC team in Lafiagi, the acting Managing Director, BUA Foods, Engr. Ayodele Abioye, said the visit was timely as it restated the company’s drive to ensure the advancement of the food sector and the Nigerian economy. Abioye said: “We thank the National Sugar Development Council. We are glad you like the level of work that has gone into this plantation and remain committed to fully attaining the backward integration program. Its role in conserving foreign exchange, boosting local capacity, creating jobs, enhancing skill acquisition and ensuring that less emphasis is placed on imported raw materials is clearly understood. “We believe at take-off that this enormous project will make a huge impact to our business and the aspirations of the council.” Earlier, the Emir of Lafiagi, Alhaji Mohammed Kudu Kawa, described the project as a “game-changing initiative” that will spur development of the community. According to him, “For us, the BUA-LASUCO project is a dream come true for Lafiagi, as there are only a handful of towns that can boast of a $300 million investment. We are proud of this project and very happy it is situated in our area. “The potential is huge, the type of transformation this project will bring Lafiagi beats the imagination. Today, we are on the world map due to the 3km runway. We are very happy and committed to this project; there is nothing BUA needs that we will not accommodate”.