An educational technology platform, Afrilearn has made an examination preparation mobile app freely accessible to primary and secondary school students across Nigeria and the globe. Afrilearn, founded in 2019, disclosed this in a statement, explaining it empowers children ages 6 to 18 with free, fun, and world-class education for best grades in school and competitive examinations like the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE), Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME), National Examination Council (NECO) among others. The firm added it also monitors every learner’s progress with detailed analytics to help every student identify their strengths and areas for improvement. “Some children learn best by watching videos, some by reading class notes, some by solving practice problems, and some by social collaboration. “By design, Afrilearn is purposefully built to give every child the freedom to learn, using the unique methods that work best for them,” Isaac Oladipupo, Co-founder/CEO at Afrilearn said. - Advertisement - Oladipupo added: “Our innovative e-Learning platform offers richly animated and curriculum-based video lessons, class notes, practice exercises, live classes, a personalised learning dashboard, and many more learning resources.” The education streaming startup, according to the statement, has organically reached over 486,032 learners, with more than 50,000 gamified quizzes, 5,000 curriculum-specific class notes, and over 3,000 video lessons. Co-founder/Head of Content at Afrilearn, Gabriel Olatunji-Legend, said: “Beyond helping students fill learning gaps with trusted content by expert tutors, with its several cutting-edge features, Afrilearn also empowers teachers, schools and parents to effectively accelerate learning outcomes. “Our goal is to empower students to study at their own pace in and outside the classroom, via any device.” Recounting his experience, a Secondary School Teacher, Taiye Ojuolape noted that, “As a History class teacher, Afrilearn saves me a lot of time in accessing useful teaching materials.   Naomi A. Tonye Alagoa and the Nigerian Grading System     NYSC Trust Fund will provide start-up capital for corps…     Surest pathway to legitimate Canada immigration, by Dewunmi…   “The contents are very comprehensive, and the app display is so friendly and easy to navigate. ‘The resources helped to increase my classroom engagement exponentially.” Also, a senior secondary school student in Lagos, Isabella Onuwa, said; “For the first time ever, I got straight A’s in my exams. “All thanks to the free, exciting practice exercises on the Afrilearn app. “This is definitely the fastest way to pass WAEC, NECO, JAMB, and I’m still surprised that it’s absolutely free.” According to Oladipupo, it’s very unfair to expect a changed Nigeria without first educating Nigerians. “Without quality education and opportunities, our citizens can’t rise beyond prejudices. “Sadly, our brick-and-mortar system of education is neither affordable nor sustainable. “Having witnessed this firsthand in our formative years, Gabriel and I left our lucrative jobs in 2018 to solve this problem, leveraging technology. “Widely described as the Netflix of education for young Africans, 94 per cent of students who use Afrilearn report achieving higher school grades, increased confidence and exam success.”