A group of 100 leading business, political, civil society leaders have spoken of the need to build a consensus for national rebirth ahead of next year’s general elections. At the meeting in Lagos, the group, which is known as ‘The 2022 Committee’, said it is essential for patriots to come together to rescue the country from political, economic and security threats before the election. A statement signed on behalf of the conveners by former Presidential Liaison Officer to the Senate, Kashim Imam and ThisDay/Arise Media Group Chairman Nduka Obaigbena said it is essential to ensure that the country is secure, peaceful and united before those interested in contesting for elective positions begin to canvass for votes. The statement noted: “We must have a secure, peaceful and united nation before we can have candidates for political offices.” It added: “Whilst the 2022 committee is interested in the quality of leadership that will emerge in Nigeria at all levels, we consider attempts to link the committee with candidates or political parties for the 2023 elections as an unwarranted and unnecessary distraction. Candidates are only chosen by political parties and we are not a political party,” The meeting of the eminent persons, which was held from February 4 to 6 under the aegis of “The 2022 Committee” is non-partisan and was meant to build consensus towards national rebirth.   Edo business tycoon, cleric clash over threats to life,…     Tinubu felicitates Fayemi at 57     Abiru presents Magodo Residents’ petition to Senate   - Advertisement - The conveners said the retreat to map a new consensus for national rebirth, was attended by 14 current governors, 13 former governors and three former senate presidents to chart the way forward for the country. They said the participants, working in three sub-committees namely: national security, the economy and Nigeria in transition, recognised that there is an urgent need to seek common ground and irreducible minimum actions to stabilise the polity at this critical time of transition. But the coordinators of the meeting said although all the 100 leading lights of the 2022 committee have the capacity for national leadership, it should not be linked to the politics of 2023. The conveners said that amongst the active participants in the work of the committee were over seven persons, from three or more political parties, who had already publicly declared their aspirations to lead the country but were desirous of working with other patriots for non-partisan greater national goals. According to the statement, the meetings will continue as we work with federal and state governments, current and future political leaders of all political persuasions, as well as other eminent patriotic citizens, for the greater good of the Nigerian people.” The conveners, therefore called on all patriotic volunteers, who are willing and able, to join the collective effort to stabilise the country so that a new Nigeria, that all can be proud of, could be built