Gunmen suspected to be kidnappers have abducted 10 farmers at Ayede Ogbese in Akure North Local Government Area. The victims were farmers and identified as Femi Alawiye and the workers he engaged in his farm. Also in Ekiti State, gunmen abducted a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress and former Chairman of Ilejemeje Local Government Area of Ekiti State, Prince Bamgboye Adegoroye and four others. Some source said: “On Saturday in the late evening, he (Alawiye) was called on the phone that his farm was on fire, he quickly rushed to the scene. - Advertisement - “On getting to the farm, the armed men suddenly appeared and whisked them away to an unknown destination.” The source also said the kidnappers have contacted the family and demanded a ransom of N100 million but later reduced it to N10 million. “Some hours after the adduction, the kidnappers called the family on phone to demand N100 million and failure to get the money, we may not see them again. Five of them (farm workers) were released later. “After the negotiation, they reduced the ransom to N10 million. But the family is yet to raise the money. That is where we are now. Currently, all of them (victims) are still in the kidnappers’ den.” The Ondo police spokesman, Funmilayo Odunlami, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), who confirmed the incident, said efforts were ongoing to rescue the victims unhurt. “Our men are already in the bush in search of the victims and we are sure they would be rescued.”   Court restrains FUOYE, NUC from replacing Registrar, Bursar     Alleged N2b fraud: Court admits Maina’s judgment in…     2023: Atiku consults with IBB in Minna   Adegoroye, one of the victims in Ekiti State is said to be one of the top officials at the Southwest Agenda for Tinubu (SWAGA) in the state. He was kidnapped alongside one other in his car along Isan-Iludun Road on Monday. Disclosing this to reporters in Ado-Ekiti yesterday, the Chairman of Ifesowapo Local Council Development Areas (LCDA) of Ekiti State, Mr Kayode Akerele said they were abducted and taken to an unknown destination around 7:30 p.m. after being seized along that route. “We learnt that the former council chief and one other occupant of his car was driving along that route when his car was shot by gunmen who hid inside the bush. “They had to stop because the gunshot hit their car and it was at that spot that they were abducted and we have not heard whether the family had been contacted,” he said. The Chairman of Ero Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs), Mr Akin Alebiosu said three charcoal burners were also kidnapped at Ikun- Ekiti around 6:30 p.m. on the same day. Alebiosu revealed that the leader of the charcoal burners identified as Olu, who is indigenous to Ikun-Ekiti and other victims were at the Ero River Basin for their business when the incident happened. Alebiosu and Akerele appealed to the Police Commissioner, Ekiti Command, Mr Babatunde Mobayo, to beef up security along the Ayede-Isan-Iludun-Ikun axis that is gradually becoming safe haven for criminals. When contacted, the Commandant of Amotekun Corps in Ekiti, Brig. Gen. Joe Akomolafe said the outfit is working with other security agencies to rescue the victims. Akomolafe said the Moba, Ilejemeje and Oye local governments axis of Ekiti is becoming a safe haven for abductors because the councils were where Ekiti has borders with Kwara and Kogi states. “My men and other security agencies are inside the forests working hard to rescue the victims. We are after them and we won’t rest until they are freed. “That axis seems to be unsafe because of our boundaries with Kogi and Kwara states. So, immediately the kidnappers grab their victims, within 15 minutes, they would have driven them out of Ekiti and to a terrain that is hilly and difficult to navigate. “Another crisis we are facing is the fact that the kidnappers have informants among the locals who give them information about our movements. But whatever happens, we are mapping out strategies to checkmate their activities in the areas,”