Writing and passing exams can be very challenging, especially for terrifying courses. But nothing is impossible to do for well-determined students. From experience and statistics, there are several cases of students failing due to seriousness. But here is a no-nonsense guide on how to pass exams with flying colours which every student is expected to make proper references to:   Your environment tells more about how much you can understand what you read. Where you carry out your studies influences your ability to write well in exams and make good grades. Never read in a noisy and busy environment where you will be distracted by activities in your environment as you are reading. - Advertisement - Fear is a spirit of distraction and failure of students especially during examination period. Fear alone can cause a lot of problems during an examination. You need to make good use of the ability to overcome the fear of writing exams no matter how hard the paper is.   Many fail exams not because they never read but because they allowed the fear and threat of exam intimidate them and they end up failing the exam despite all there effort put together for the exam Never cram. This is a term used to express a situation where students engage in cramming only to pass exams. Cramming is a bad reading habit that can defend student by forgetting a single line your read in your book. Students who cram a lot tends to forget all they have crammed after the examination period and most of the times even before the examination as little stress or distraction can make then loss what the brain holds because they didn’t study to remember. They were cramming only to write their examinations.   Students who want to pass exams with good grade are advised to study hard and shun any form of cramming as this has never helped any successful student.   All works and no play make Jack a dull boy…. but should Jack play away his time? No. must commonly distraction to students is school parties. Being organised for both freezer and existing students in the college.     If always late to school, don’t even try it during examinations. During exams, coming to school late will output a very awful result as the student will be in a rush and might be given late penalties while others are busy writing their examination. The above situations can disorganise a student and make him/her perform low during the examination and probably submit same time with others. Developing passion for all courses offering is very important note to pass an exam irrespective of how unprofessional the lecturer taking the course is never hate the course or develop a mindset of not attending the course class. Many students complain they got admission into the course they don’t like but they have to accept the admission because they are tired of staying at home. Such type of students will find it difficult to write and pass such courses excellently simply because they don’t have a passion for the course they are studying. Developing a passion for your course is a sure way to writing exams with high grades.     Setting a goal on what to achieve during a semester is another perfect way to do effectively in an exam and pass.   Firm affirms commitment to mother tongue, excellence in…     Bingham varsity secures N50m grant for COVID-19 research     Teach For Nigeria to groom 20,000 teachers by 2031   This particular tip has helped many students determine what they want and working towards it to achieve success. Making a reading timetable is an effective way to make better performance during exams, this is a practical approach to reading what you intend to read at the right time. Reading timetable will make sure you cover all the courses you’re supposed to read and get ready for your examination. It is true that after setting your reading timetable, there could be other challenges like feeling sleepy while reading, but mastering your reading timetable will help you overcome it. Some students are fond of reading only when the exam is close, there will always go short of time reading all the courses they will have to write, especially for students studying in schools with tight exam timetable.   You will write exams with flying colours when you make reading a habit. You can achieve this through constant reading. As a student it good to read but at the same time after reading your brain need to rest as to digest what you have read previously. According to research it is good to always have up to 8 hours of sleep every day, this does not matter whether you want to read throughout the night or not, you can sleep during the day and read at night. Or read in the daytime and then get yourself full hours of sleep at night. As a student always have it in mind that only you cannot know it all. You need others to make yourself a successful personality. Cultivate the habit of testing yourself to know the level of your understanding concerning that courses you have being reading so far. After reading, before you go for the exams, you can ask friends in your reading group to ask you certain questions within and outside all you studied and see how well you can answer those questions.   Apart from answering questions from friends, you can also organise your own personal quiz and see how well you can attend to them you just have to be honest with yourself here. If there’s anything you forget, you can always make references to your reading materials and conduct several revisions before the exam starts. Seek the help of your gurus-those who know then you. Those who are in higher class that have pass through your class for proper clarification. You can always meet others who are in a higher class, ask them how they managed to write and pass certain university courses, follow their strategies to see how best it works for you. They were once at your stage, now they have passed it, the possibility that things will work out for you same as it did for them is high. Most of the exams you are yet to write have been written by some other persons, some time ago. Reading past questions will help you know the scheme or strategies adopted in setting a particular school exam and the approaches you can apply to make high grades.