Declaration by Senator Rochas Okorocha for the office of the president in 2023 could have passed quietly but for the court charges filed against him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC hours after the outing. Though Okorocha had dramatized the event when he wrote the senate indicating his intention to vie for that position, the controversy that eventually ensued may not have arisen but for the court action by the EFCC. In his letter to the senate, Okorocha had said he was contesting for the position because Nigeria requires a detribalized leader who can unite the country; one with a compassionate heart for the poor and the downtrodden, a leader who can create wealth and address poverty, insecurity and youth restiveness. Presumably, he sees himself as an embodiment of these qualities for which he now seeks to rule the country. He is entitled to his opinion. Unlike some other aspirants who quietly made known their intention to run for that office, Okorocha opted for what he called a world press conference that drew considerable public attention to the event. He spoke with much eloquence and confidence as he made some other contentious statements to market himself as a detribalized Nigerian; one propelled by altruistic zeal. He also strove to impress sections of his audience on his religious ‘liberalism’ as he appropriately quoted copiously from the Quran to support his presentation. He would have gone home beating his chest for a job well done but for the ‘poison’ injected into that ambition by EFCC’s court action. In the 17-count charge, the EFCC is pressing for the trial of Okorocha for allegedly stealing N2.9 billion from public coffers. The timing of the court charges shortly after Okorocha declared his fitness for the presidency raised considerable curiosity and suspicion. It threw up speculations as to what the EFCC has up its sleeves. - Advertisement - Was it an attempt to de-market his claims of a detribalized leader with a compassionate heart for the poor and down trodden; one that can create wealth and address poverty, insecurity and youth restiveness? And can someone charged with stealing a humongous sum of N2.9 billion public funds be trusted to keep faith with the sterling qualities Okorocha ascribes to himself for which he seeks to rule the country? These were the searing posers thrown up by the turn of events. As should be expected, Okorocha was quick to react to the fresh charges of fraud terming them politically-motivated and ‘false’. He claims he has court judgments barring the EFCC from harassing and intimidating him. And he has run to President Buhari to compel the EFCC to obey those court orders. It is unclear the quarters the political dimension of the EFCC court action is emanating from since Okorocha is a senator elected on the platform of the ruling party. As a leading member of the ruling party, it is difficult to fathom where the political conspiracy is coming from unless he wants us to believe that he does not belong to the right tendency in his party. He could not have run to the president if he nursed suspicion that he was privy to his travails. So the source of his conspiracy theory remains curious. What did he expect the president to do for him? He said it was to avail him of the existence of the court orders that barred the anti-graft agency from intimidating and harassing him. Could the filing of corruption charges against him be likened to an act of intimidation and harassment? It is difficult to fathom how such a meaning could be read into the EFCC action. More fundamentally, could a court of competent jurisdiction permanently prevent the agency from investigating a former public office holder on suspicion of corrupt enrichment? That would indeed sound very absurd. It is therefore difficult to fathom what remedies to the case Okorocha seeks from the president.   Nwobodo clarifies position on Enugu governorship     Ugwuanyi hails Army for maintaining security in Enugu     PAP prepares additional 1,500 ex-agitators, others for…   If every accused person has to run to the president to call the EFCC to order, then the EFCC would have become a willing tool of the ruling party. Perhaps, Okorocha had easy access to the president because he is of the ruling party. That in itself speaks volumes on the impartiality and credibility of the anti-graft agency. The impression the development miserably conveys is that the EFCC could be primed to erect obstacles to the political ambitions of aspirants not in the good books of the government. This fear has been there. That will re-enact a similitude of events during the Obasanjo regime when the EFCC was used to impeach some governors. The image and credibility of the agency in the fight against corruption would be worse for it. Okorocha went off tangent when he said he was richer before he became governor and that being a governor made him poorer. Hear him “How much is Imo State government money? Imo State even owes me because I never collected my security votes. I am supposed to collect from Imo State now N8 billion if I have to make claims for security votes I did not collect”. Statements like these assail public sensibilities as they have no bearing with the issue at stake. This is more so for a man in a running battle with the authorities including the Imo State government over sundry allegations of financial impropriety while he was in the saddle. This unbridled boastfulness assaults our collective psyche especially for a man recorded on video saying he is richer than Imo State. If Okorocha says Imo State owes him N8 billion as security votes not collected, that calls for investigation. From what account did he fund the security of the state in his eight years in office? It is also very childish to ask how much is a state governments’ money worth? I think there is something unsavory and aching in the way Okorocha goes about proving his innocence in the sundry allegations of corruption heaped against him. And that could complicate matters for him. He is at liberty to deny the allegations or plead his innocence. The law deems him innocent until found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction. But he does not help matters either by asking how much a state government is worth or boasting that he is richer than his state government. In saner climes, such claims would be immediately matched with serious inquisition into the source of his touted wealth and the tax paid on the alleged stupendous wealth. But not here! That is why he can make such claims severally and go to bed. Beyond this however, is the propriety of the EFCC action. What does the anti-graft agency seek to achieve by filing the court charges hours after Okorocha presented his leadership credentials to the Nigerian public? Was it to inject a virus into his ambition, alert Nigerians that a credibility baggage allegedly hangs over his neck for which his ambition cannot sell or both? Given that Okorocha left office over two and half years ago, why did it take the day of his declaration for court action to be filed against him? It is clear the timing of the court action was intended to encumber the claims Okorocha bandied for which he seeks to rule the country. Okorocha’s allegation of political motive cannot be completely ruled out even as the EFCC is within its rights to institute the case at its convenience. A lesson has obviously been served to political office seekers. But can the EFCC really stop him from realizing his political ambition through the current court action? If it took the agency more than two years to put the facts of the case together, there is everything to expect that the court process will take a longer time. Even then, mere institution of the case cannot debar the accused from carrying on with his political ambition. The case will have to run its full course before it takes legal effect. He may even be sworn in only for the immunity clause to constrain the EFCC from further action. It happened in Abia State. The EFCC should get more serious with its statutory mandate for it to earn public confidence.