Dradrock development, a private developer in luxury real estate with a niche in Lagos,  has set up a branch  in Abuja. The office in the Central Business District, Abuja, will  serve customers within and outside the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Group Managing Director, Oladipo Idowu-Agida said  the opening of the branch office had been a part of the expansion drive of Dradrock’s management. Idowu-Agida added that the decision was in response to a demand by FCT residents  keen on  acquiring  their first homes or investing  in properties His words: “We already have a solid and customer-centric  management team in place, seeing to the needs of these customers in the Abuja and its environs.’’ Dradrock, according to him,  will launch its first project based on  customer’s preference and location next month. We pride ourselves in ensuring we acquire or go into a joint venture with the necessary documents in place. As part of our core value, ‘Integrity’ is crucial, which was one of the primary reasons we took time to step into the Abuja market.   Nigeria sues JP Morgan in London over $1.7b oil deal     IMF seeks recapitalisation of banks hit by COVID-19     VFD Group acquires largest stake in NGX   “Before our coming into Abuja, we have spent the last four years delivering premium apartments, terraces, and site and serviced estates in Lagos. The Abuja market is the first step in our expansion plans to some cities in Nigeria and even beyond. We have always seen the opportunities that abound in the Real Estate space in Abuja, and we look forward to serving Nigerians home and abroad with the best value in this sector.“ Dradrock’s  General Manager, Business Growth  , Motunrayo Ayorinde,  explained that the Abuja  office “will focus on assisting investors home and abroad with market access.” “Over the last two years, there have been several requests from customers for properties and  investment opportunities in Abuja. Our company is therefore ready to bridge the gap.” she added. Ayorinde disclosed that  “one of the many properties we are bringing to the Abuja Real estate corridor is the award-winning Millennial Bay twin towers in Lekki Phase one. Recall that Millennial Bay won the best Architectural Design for A Multi-Residential High-rise Building in 2021. The  general manager added that the “Abuja office will introduce property investors to the Lagos products as the company prepares to announce new projects and Real estate investment schemes for property investors in the coming weeks.” Head, Strategy and growth of the company, Anthony Okeleke, said the management ascertained  and identified the market needs of the residents and property investors in Abuja before opting to set up the  Abuja office. “We are very excited about the opportunity to bring quality residences to Abuja, and we are confident that this would be the beginning of a very cordial relationship with Abuja property investors,” he enthused.