A serving House of Representatives member, Gabriel Saleh Zock, was arraigned yesterday before a High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in Maitama, Abuja, for alleged complicity in a N185 million fraud. Zock, who represents Kachia Kagarko Federal Constituency of Kaduna State, was arraigned on a two-count charge filed by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). He is accused of defrauding Engineer Adeyemi Kamar of the amount under false pretences, claiming that he would assist the plaintiff to influence the FCT minister to secure Right of Occupancy (R of O) on his (Kamar’s) property at the Guzape area of the FCT. The lawmaker pleaded not guilty when the charge was read to him, and the lead prosecuting lawyer, Mrs. Maryam Aminu Ahmed, prayed the court to remand the defendant in prison pending the determination of his bail application. Justice Halilu Yusuf ordered that the defendant be remanded in the custody of the EFCC until February 16 when his bail motion would be heard.   NIA faults ex-AGF Agabi’s claims on sacked Acting DG Dauda     Judge’s absence stalls suit seeking to stop arrest,…     Lawan: why we are raising N25b for Yobe education   - Advertisement - The defendant, who said he was brought to court from the custody of the EFCC, was not represented by a lawyer. On realising that the defendant had no legal representation, Justice Halilu Yusuf asked a lawyer in court, Adebara Adeniyi, to represent the lawmaker for the purpose of his arraignment and the application for bail. Mrs. Aminu Ahmed did not object to Adeniyi’s appearance, but averred that the bail application filed by the defendant on February 9, 2022 was not ripe for hearing. The prosecuting lawyer said she also required time to study the application and respond to issues raised in it by the defendant. Adeniyi later applied orally for bail for the defendant, but was overruled by Justice Yusuf, who held that a written application had already been filed for the defendant by another lawyer. Justice Halilu Yusuf ordered that the defendant be remanded in the custody of the EFCC until February 16 when his bail motion would be heard.