The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) is set to surpass its N7trillion tax collection target in 2022. A source at the FIRS told The Nation that the resolve to exceed the target the Federal Government will set for the Service “is to compensate for the FGN’s decision to appoint the FIRS as the Principal Tax Revenue Collection Agency”. The FIRS has the Federal Government’s approval to collaborate with Federal Law Enforcement agencies and Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDAs). New powers have now been vested in the FIRS. This includes to sanction non-compliant taxpayers refusing access to IT systems for which the FIRS may deploy both Proprietary and Third-Party Tech Applications to collect information from taxpayers. The FIRS is now empowered to assess Non-Resident Firms to tax on Fair and Reasonable Turnover Tax Basis, on Turnover earned from providing Digital Services to Nigerian customers. Introduce Turnover Tax on Fair & Reasonable Percentage of Profits earned from providing Digital Services to Nigerian customers. - Advertisement - The FIRS collected N6.405 trillion tax revenue in 2021 and it now expects the Federal Government to increase the target to N7 trillion or more.   Hijab: Minister calls for dialogue     Tinubu back after UK consultations     Katsina launches community, social development agency   “We are given a target, we don’t set targets for ourselves, there is a national tax collection target that is given to us. “We would now set our own target inhouse to say that the Federal Government has said go and collect N7trillion, we would now say okay, inhouse we want to collect N10trillion we want to surpass government’s target. “That is the energizer to the Service that makes us more or less beat our target most times.” The source also told The Nation that the FIRS will aggressively pursue the 10 percent Capital Gains Tax imposed on Shares’ Disposal Transactions where the aggregate Disposal Proceeds exceed N100m in any 12 consecutive calendar months. To surpass its given target, the source revealed that the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) will achieve 100 percent automation of all its tax administration processes with the aim of blocking revenue leakages thereby revolutionising revenue generation in Nigeria. The Service, he said, will give priority to the collection of taxes from the digital economy, and the Service will deploy technological tools in assessing entities that fall within the Significant Economic Presence (SEP) threshold and relevant turnover generated from Nigeria. According to the source, “with the amendment of Section 10 of the VAT Act by the Finance Act 2021, we will implement the published Guidelines on the Simplified Compliance Regime on VAT for Non-Resident Suppliers, to collect VAT on the digital supply of services and intangibles to Nigeria.”