Two ousted directors of Green Energy International Limited have asked a Federal High Court in Abuja to compel a former aide to ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo, Prof. Anthony Adegbulugbe, to provide financial and other details of the oil company since he became its chairman. Green Energy has been subject of a major boardroom crisis arising from the disagreement between Adegbulugbe and two other founding directors, Dr. Bunu Alibe, and Mr. Ayodele Olojede. The request for Adegbulugbe to provide the firm’s account statements, the company’s invoice and receipt of payment of its shares register of all shareholders, board resolutions, among others, is contained in a fresh motion filed by the lawyer to Alibe and Olojede, Mr. Etigwe Uwa (SAN). The motion was filed in a pending suit in which Alibe and Olojede are accusing Adegbulugbe, who was Obasanjo’s Special Adviser on Energy, of a series of corporate misdemeanors, including unilateral usurpation of executive responsibilities, contrary to the provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA), 2020, and the company’s Articles. The two directors claimed that they were unlawfully removed by the chairman of the company they jointly nurtured to fruition. - Advertisement - In the fresh motion, Alibe and Olojede are praying the court to direct the production of all bank statements of the plaintiff’s account(s) within and outside Nigeria from its incorporation till date.   Tomori decries widespread graft, immorality     Sule releases N340m for retirees’ gratuity     Sule inaugurates N2b Karu retail, recreational centre   Justice Bolaji Olajuwon fixed March 9 for hearing in the case. The ousted directors also asked for the invoice and receipts of payment of the firm’s shares “by Professor Anthony Adegbulugbe, Miss Nnenaya Anya, Dr. Lyberty Udochu, Grand Energy Limited, Mr. Adebayo Babalola, Mrs. Busayo Bisari-Akinadeju, Mr. Elijah Adepoju, Miss Blessing I. Olorunfemi and Mr. Dotun Oluwakayode”. They demanded for “Professor Anthony Adegbulugbe, Miss Nnenaya Anya, Dr. Lyberty Udochu, Grand Energy Limited, Mr. Adebayo Babalola, Mrs. Busayo Bisari-Akinadeju, Mr. Elijah Adepoju, Miss Blessing J. Olorunfemi and Mr. Dotun Oluwakayode’s payment cheques or other evidences of payment for the shares of the plaintiff. “The plaintiff’s duplicates of its issued share transfer certificates to Professor Anthony Adegbulugbe, Miss Nnenaya Anya, Dr. Lyberty Udochu, Grand Energy Limited, Mr. Adebayo Babalola, Mrs. Busayo Bisari-Akinadeju, Mr. Elijah Adepoju, Miss Blessing I. Olorunfemi and Mr. Dotun Oluwakayode. “All minutes of meetings between the plaintiff and Shell Producing and Development Company. “All minutes of meetings between the plaintiff and the Department of Petroleum Resources,” among others.