A private member bill seeking to sentence anyone who attempts suicide to compulsory counselling and community service for a period not less than six months was passed for second reading in the House of Representatives last week. The bill aims to amend the Criminal Code Act, Cap. C38, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004 by decriminalising suicide. Under the proposed amendment, Section 327 of the Criminal Code Act which stipulates ‘imprisonment for one year’ as penalty for attempted / failed suicide will now read: ‘Any person who attempts to kill himself is guilty of a misdemeanour, and is liable to compulsory counselling and community service for a period not less than six months.’ Sponsored by Francis Waive (APC, Delta), the explanatory memorandum on the proposed legislation read: ‘This bill seeks to amend the Criminal Code Act Cap C38 LFN 2004 to provide for a more rational punishment for the offence of attempted suicide. The punishment proposed by this bill will be curative and punitive, thereby making it possible for victims to be able to reintegrate into society.’ Leading the debate on the motion for amendment, Waive marshalled compelling arguments on why people who attempt suicide should be viewed as victims and not criminals. He noted that suicide is today identified as the second leading cause of death among 15-35 year-olds globally, while statistics show that low and middle-income countries account for 79 percent of suicide globally. He further said over the last 45 years, suicide rates have increased by about 60 percent, thus establishing it to be a major public health problem: the World Health Organisation specifies this to be mental health.   Ibadan STEM museum/exhibition – legacy project     Curbing unwholesome practices of real estate developers in…     How APC’s planned February 26 convention was scuttled   According to Waive, mental health challenges such as depression, long term substance abuse, schizophrenia, mood disorder, psychosis and other psychiatric disorders are the most common risk factors linked to suicidal behaviour. He said nearly one-third of suicide bidders repeat the attempt within a year, and some repeated attempts have eventually succeeded. The lawmaker argued inter alia: “Research has also shown a strong link between suicide and mental illness/disorder, however, it continues to be treated as a crime in Nigeria. This means that a person who survives a suicide attempt will be harassed, arrested and punished by the state with an imprisonment term of up to one year. This bill suggests that suicidal people are in need of effective treatments, counselling and assistance, not punishment. Penalising attempted suicide is hardly a prevention method, instead the law should direct the appropriate authorities to assist the traumatised attempters…The criminal laws are better suited for prosecuting criminal acts, not an exhibited call for help and act of distress.” Noting that suicides and suicide attempts have been on the rise in Nigeria and could be due to several reasons, but primarily the harsh economic conditions of the average Nigerian, Waive submitted: “It is therefore imperative to substitute Section 327 of the principal act which provides for rash treatment of anyone who attempts suicide with a proposed amendment which provides that ‘Any person who attempts to kill himself is guilty of a misdemeanour and is liable to compulsory counselling and community service for a period not less than six months.” - Advertisement - We are in total agreement with the argument that suicide attempts are acts of distress embedding a call for help, not criminal acts. What the suicide bidder needs is care, not punishment; and that is why we think the penalty prescribed under the proposed amendment – lessened as it is, compared to the current provision of law – is still double jeopardy for the victim. Rather than the law prescribing penalty for suicide bidders, it could mandate hospitals and other care givers to open hotlines that will be easily accessible for persons contemplating suicide to get professional help. There should be massive public enlightenment about such facility, and attempters should be referred for mental health attention rather than be punished. Moreover, governing authorities need to work at making conditions right in the society to lessen the disposition to suicide.