FOR Bigvai Jokotoye, relocating to the United States of America is one of his best decisions in recent times. The actor, model and influencer, who played diverse characters in Nollywood before relocating in search for a greener pasture, says it’s extremely hard getting into the American film industry known as Hollywood. He speaks with ADENIYI ADEWOYIN on his relocation to U.S., marriage and career. HOW have you been coping with life in the U.S. considering the fact that you are a popular celeb in Nigeria before relocating?  Life has been treating me well in America and I am doing just fine. Being a public figure means nothing to me. Even while I was in Nigeria, I didn’t see myself as someone special. I don’t believe in this public figure thing, I just do what I have to do because nobody is special, we all have blood flowing in our vein. So here in America, I live my life by doing my regular job and at the same time I act as a part time job and I am taking care of my family. What prompted your decision to relocate? I relocated because I wanted to have my own family, therefore, greener pasture like any other person. It’s a normal thing around the world that people migrate from one country to another for different purposes. Majorly, I migrated to America because of my family and for a better life because I wasn’t getting the better life that I wanted in Nigeria so I decided to look elsewhere and I found myself here. I could recall you were trolled for celebrating your American citizenship, why did you deem it necessary to celebrate it and what do you think of those who trolled you for doing that?  For those trolling me when I celebrated my citizenship, that is their cup of tea I don’t care. I’m sure they were only jealous of me when I announced it, they would have done more if they were in my shoes. I celebrated it because looking back at what I went through when I was in Nigeria even when people saw me as a celebrity – I went through a lot. There are so many benefits Nigerians should be enjoying but our selfish leaders are denying us a lot of benefits. If you live in America even as a non citizen you will still enjoy your life so imagine being a citizen. Let me give you an instance, in 2001, I dropped out of University of Ado Ekiti because I couldn’t pay my school fees which was #22,000 as at then, now in America, I wasn’t even a citizen when the state paid my school fees. I could go for student loan, if Nigeria could do the same, some of us wouldn’t have dropped out, we could have gone to school and pay the loan. Here, I don’t have to drop out unless I don’t want to go school anymore. Look at the basic amenities we enjoy here but in Nigeria it’s like gold. The least I was paying NEPA was ten thousand naira a month and they hardly give me power supply. These are the things that will make someone celebrate citizenship in America. I know for sure you still do some acting over there. Can it be compared to what you do here in terms of quality of production, script and the pay?    Portable blasts trolls over social media posts     Babies have no conscience – Williams Uchemba     Asa releases fifth album, features Wizkid, Amaarae, others   Yes, I’ve been doing some acting here and I have done a lot of movies which some are coming out on Netflix and YouTube and some are on YouTube already. Shooting of movies here is totally different from how it is in Nigeria. Those I have done here are more professional and the picture quality is better than what we used to shoot back home although some Nigerians are making us proud now. When you see some Nigerian movies on Netflix you be like wow this is great. Some are also trying on YouTube but if I am to compare the two, I think I’m making better movies here than in Nigeria. Although some of them are not yet released but when you see then you will attest to it. Even if you watch those that I have on YouTube you will see what I am talking about. The only challenges we have is that we don’t have many professional actors here from Nigeria. We have some Nigerians here who have shown interest in acting and they are being trained and they are getting there. Are you considering breaking into Hollywood?  Hollywood is not easy to break into I won’t lie to you. I have met a lot of Nigerians in Los Angeles who were even born here trying to break into Hollywood but it’s not that easy. I have gone for a lot of auditions but one challenge that we have is our accent. Your accent will limit your roles except they give you background roles but speaking roles will be difficult because we don’t speak like them no matter how good your English is. That’s why I still speak my English like a Nigerian, if you force yourself to speak like an American you are deceiving yourself, the accent is there. So most times you get a role when they have a role that allows you to speak your accent because I have gotten few roles like that in some Hollywood movies that are coming out soon. I will continue trying and trust in God. You often speak out against bad governance and 2023 is by the corner, which candidate or aspirant are you supporting and why?  Yes I speak about bad leadership in Nigeria and to be honest with you the only person I will ask people to support any day anytime is Sowore but I am not sure he is coming to contest yet. Some people question my choice of candidate. Well, if he gets there and mess up too we will call him out! But I cannot give my support to both APC and PDP. Both parties had the opportunities to make Nigeria great but instead of that, they are taking us backwards. What’s your advice to your fellow countrymen towards the forthcoming election?  For those who have their permanent voters card, go out there and vote and for those who don’t have yet, go and get it and vote on election day, hopefully our votes will count this time. I am pleading again; they should not sell their votes for peanuts. Even if they are coming to give you one million naira to vote for them it doesn’t worth it, you can spend the money in one day but they will be there for eight year. What happens to you and your family through that period? No security, no food, no good education, bad roads everywhere but these politicians don’t feel it because they are not in our shoes. What would you say has been your best decision in recent times? My best decision is relocation to America and marrying my wife. Those two decisions are my best so far. Aside from acting, I have achieved a lot of things since I got to America that you will never see me post. Except for the citizenship, I don’t post my private life on social media. I will just congratulate myself and my wife and thank God for his grace. I remember somebody coming to my page asking me are you sure you live in America.