It always creeps in from nowhere. In the twinkling of an eye, fuel queues will be all over the place, impeding traffic and leaving the motorist wondering if this was the same road he took the previous day. As he beholds the snaky queues of vehicles at filling stations, as he drives out on a new day, he mumbles inwardly why it did not cross his mind to buy petrol last night on his way home. As a motorist, you may have been confronted with this kind of situation at one time or the other. In Nigeria, fuel queues are unheralded. They can happen at anytime – in the morning, afternoon or night. From observation, they usually spring up at night, making the motorist feel guilty, as he drives out the next morning, why he did not buy petrol the previous day when it was still easy to do so. This is the pattern that fuel queues take whenever the commodity becomes scarce. When the problem arises, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, as it then was, blames it on “panic buying”. The longsuffering average Nigerian tags it “hoarding” or “artificial scarcity”.  In both cases, the parties are saying the same thing that there is fuel, but they differ on why it is scarce. Why would the public resort to “panic buying” and the marketers to “hoarding” if the product is really available? This has always been the question. But, as usual, there is nobody to answer it as those who should know resort to the blame game whenever fuel becomes scarce. Whether as Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation or as Nigerian National Petroleum Company Ltd,  as it is now known under the soon to be suspended Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), nothing has changed in NNPC’s handling of the perennial fuel crisis. Nothing buttresses this fact more than the way it reacted to the current scarcity. The shortage, is by no way, an happenstance. It was a problem waiting to happen because NNPC and its subsidiaries, especially, the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroluem Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA), were not proactive enough. NNPC has for sometime now been the sole importer of fuel since major marketers shunned the business because of the “stifling cost of operation”. Few weeks ago, it brought some consignments into the country, which turned out to be contaminated. - Advertisement - Did NNPC import a contaminated product? Or did the commodity get contaminated after landing in the country? Was there no quality control? How could the product have gone through the necessary checks without being discovered before its circulation? At what point did NNPC discover the contaminated fuel? Does it speak well of its control systems that such product could leave its or private depots without being discovered? When it knew about the problem, what steps did it take to prevent the present “artificial scarcity”? In fuel matters, the buck stops with NNPC. This is why whenever there is a shortage, the public blames the organisation for the headache it is going through. Rather than relieve the people of their headache, NNPC resorted to misrepresenting facts about the matter. In its reaction on Monday, it hid the truth about the contaminated product, pretending to be unaware of the problem. Hear the firm: “The NNPC Ltd wishes to assure the public that the company has sufficient PMS stock to meet the needs of Nigerians.   BREAKING: MTN pays $253.86m balance to NCC for 5G licence     Gbajabiamila’s lamentation     The Asiwaju Tinubu I know, by Finnih   “The public is, therefore, advised not to engage in panic buying of petrol; and to ignore all rumours that may suggest otherwise”. Could the public be said to have engaged in panic buying when only few outlets were selling the product? What should the motorists do in such a situation? Fold their arms and wait for petrol to, like Manna, fall from heaven? What “rumours” was NNPC referring to? Is it not true that there is contaminated fuel in circulation? Unfortunately, NNPC chose to beg rather than address the issue. It took the statement by NMDPRA on Tuesday to show the lie in NNPC’s position. NMDPRA unequivocally blamed the scarcity on the discovery of “limited quantity of Petroleum Motor Spirit (PMS), commonly known as petrol, with methanol quantities above Nigeria’s specification in the supply chain. To ensure vehicular and equipment safety, the limited quantity of the impacted product has been isolated and withdrawn from the market, including the loaded trucks in transit…Meanwhile, NNPC has intensified efforts at increasing the supply of petrol into the market to bridge any unforeseen supply gap”. NNPC should have come clean with the public, just as NMDPRA did. As a limited liability company that it is now is, NNPC must realise that it can no longer be business as usual. It is no longer a government agency. A limited liability company is built on fiduciary trust and answerable to its shareholders and not the government. Why did it find it difficult to admit that contaminated product is in circulation? Such a product is harmful. It can cause a lot of damage to people’s health and vehicles. What happens to those who have suffered one damage or the other from the bad product? Will they be compensated and by who? In these hard and lean times when people are striving to make ends meet, their problems should not be compounded by public or private organisations charged with  the provision of services essential to their every day living. NNPC has failed its first test as a limited liability company. The morning, they say, shows the day. Is this how it will manage its operations under the new dispensation? NNPC must buckle up now. The era when it was run like ‘no-man’s’ business is gone. It must realise that it is no longer a state agency, but a company that will soon go on public offer when the PIA is tidied up. Nobody will invest in it, if it still parades itself as an agency of government with little or no regard for business ethic. In the meantime, NNPC can show that it is ready for life as a business entity by addressing the cry of independent marketers who are badly hit by the bad product. This bad product is not of their making and so, they should not be made to bear the brunt. They have incurred losses over the bad product which they could not sell and have been vicariously responsible for the damage done to their customers’ vehicles. Compensating these motorists will not be out of place or they may decide to seek legal remedy, which would have been the option in saner climes. As for the Mele Kyari-led NNPC, it is not too late to redefine itself.