The Lagos State government is building local data capacity to ensure that the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) and others scale up the hunger-fighting, lives and livelihoods of some of the world’s most food-insecure people. So far, FAO said the number of people experiencing acute food insecurity globally expected to far exceed 135 million people. FAOSTAT data on food and agriculture are sourced from the organisation and other leading public data providers across the UN and NGOs, academia, private sector and space agencies. The Acting Programme Manager/CEO, Lagos State Agricultural Development Authority (LSADA), Mrs Tawaikalitu Kosoko, said there was the need for rich data on food and nutrition   to help strengthen evidence-based decision-making in the sectors. Speaking at the training for the state Cadre Harmonisé (CH) food and nutrition task force said the government was determined to support the Federal government and international agencies in  analysing the food and nutrition security outcome indicators and their relevant contributing factors namely, hazards and vulnerability, food availability, access, utilisation including water, and stability.   COVID-19: IMF advises central banks on recovery     Sugar Council reads riot act     Buhari appoints Bello-Koko NPA MD   - Advertisement - - Advertisement - She added that the government was poised to explore avenues that would help develop agriculture, aid decision-making towards strengthening the sector. The Desk Officer, National Programme on Food Security (NPFS), Mrs Tosin Gansallo, said the training on CH aimed  at  building the  capacity of the food and nutrition task force in Lagos to collect  data to assist international organisations to assist food-insecure people  and  help families meet their dietary requirements. According to her, CH is the unified tool for consensual analysis of acute food and nutrition insecurity. At the regional level, the CH process is coordinated by the Permanent Inter-State Committee for Drought Control in the Sahel (CILSS) and managed by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and Union Economic Monetaire West Africa (UEMOA) within the Sahel and West African sub-region. She explained that the  analysis took account of food and nutrition security outcome indicators (Food consumption, livelihood change and nutritional status); complemented with assessment of the impact of relevant contributing factors namely, hazards and vulnerability, food availability, food access, food utilisation and stability. Considering the deterioration of food security, she noted that the training was to empower members of the task force who could not participate in the training to acquire data gathering skills to maximise effectiveness and impact. She said the CH taskforce, collaborate with partners on data collection and analysis to achieve food security. SPONSORED