Nigeria and former Manchester United striker Odion Ighalo said he would grab a chance to return to the Premier League ‘with both hands’, adding he would support the Red Devils ’till death’. Ighalo, now with Saudi Arabian giants Al Hilal, was the first Nigerian to play for United when he went there on loan in 2020, even taking a pay cut to move to the club he’d supported since childhood. He played in 12 league fixtures, but made his mark in the Europa League and FA Cup before COVID-19 cut his deal short. Winning trophies was not something he experienced at Manchester United, despite the club’s rich and trophy-laden history, but he looks back at his time there with pride. Ighalo told ESPN: “In years to come, you need something to show your children… I have been talking to my children about Manchester United, the experience. - Advertisement - “I left Old Trafford with pride, with my head up, because it was my dream team and not everybody’s dream comes to pass. Mine came to pass so every day of my life, I’m grateful.   NFF rolls out new qualification criteria for match…     EUROPA LEAGUE: Aribo shines in Rangers’ rout of Dortmund     Gumel , Bach parley over support for NOC   “To be the first Nigerian to play there and so far the only Nigerian, those are great achievements for me and I did well so I’m happy for that.” Ighalo scored five goals for United, and although his playing time became restricted as his loan deal wound down, the Nigerian said he had no regrets about his time at Old Trafford. He added: “The atmosphere in Old Trafford is different. It is a big club. If you’re not inside, you don’t know how big the club is. It is a massive, massive, massive club. “So, I thank God I played for the biggest club in the world, it’s an achievement for me and when you say, “what I should do better?”. I think I did everything I should do. I worked hard, I scored a few goals and I’m happy.” He added: “I don’t have one regret, I have zero regrets for my time at Manchester United. They are still my team till today and I’m going to support that team to death. “Even when they are struggling, I will still support them because it is Red Devils all the way.” SPONSORED