A middle Belt group known as Atiku Support Organisation (ASO) has thrown its weight behind former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, advising him to contest next year’s  presidential election. ASO also urged the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to endorse him as its consensus candidate. According to a statement  by the North Central Zonal Coordinator, ASO,  Anngu Orngu: “We are unequivocally and unanimously resolved that Atiku Abubakar should immediately declare and contest for the office of the president  come 2023 on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), and we also call on our great party to endorse him as its consensus candidate. “Atiku Abubakar is a creator of jobs. As young people, our major problem is the embarrassing rate of unemployed youth in the country which has translated into the heightened insecurity problems we are facing today as a nation. “No amount of money can be spent to fight insecurity. The only solution is the creation of jobs and opportunities to keep everyone busy. We strongly believe that an Atiku presidency will simply mean an end to the problem of unemployment in the country”.   NURTW queries Oluomo     Gunmen kill 17, abduct 57 in Niger, Kaduna attacks     Suspected killers of police sergeant arrested in Ogun   Orngu said: “The former vice president is a detribalized Nigerian with great acceptability and mass following among Nigerians of different ethnic, cultural and religious backgrounds”. The group however, said that Atiku has the political willpower to manage and end insecurity in the country, adding that an Atiku presidency means the safety of Nigerians. ASO said: “He has the economic and technical know-how to manage the Nigerian economy. Under Obasanjo/Atiku, Nigeria recorded the highest economic growth in history. An Atiku presidency will mean economic growth and prosperity for all Nigerians”. Orngu also said that an Atiku Presidency means 40 per-cent  youth involvement in governance. He said:“Atiku is the only candidate that has proven over time to groom and raise young leaders. We firmly and strongly believe that Atiku is and remains the best man to govern Nigeria come 2023”.