Mr Gurmeet Singh, Manufacturer of Star Plus Battery said that the Made-in-Nigeria Battery, `Star Plus’ has created jobs for about 5,000 Nigerians. Singh made this known during a courtesy visit to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos on Monday. He noted that the materials for the batteries were also locally-sourced. He said that the locally-sourced material and locally-manufactured batteries were empowering the dynamic population of Nigerians between the age range of 25 and 40 years. According to him, from the supplier of the locally-sourced materials of the battery to manufacturer, distributors, dealers, sub-dealers, installers, customers and consumers, were empowered and trained. - Advertisement - He said that these in turn had a multiplier effect on those with purchasing power to those empowered. NAN reports that Star Plus is a battery-manufacturing company leveraging on locally-sourced material for production at the factory in Ogun State.   My ex-boss promised me N30m to deliver human parts says…     98 suspected thugs arraigned for unlawful arms possession     Council destroys 82 illegal refining sites   ‘’We encourage on-the-job training, starting from the lowest level. In that way, we are encouraging Nigerian youths and then we are creating more and more jobs in the Nigerian market. “Our distributors can also impact training on our behalf. ‘’Our plan is to train Nigerians so that they can have proper knowledge of the processes of the job and not total reliance on expatriates. Our goals and objectives are very clear,’’ he said. Singh said that Star Plus could be described as being the cheapest in the market because it was produced locally; cost of transportation was removed as well as Customs and Excise duty. The Head of Lagos Directorate of NAN, Mr Ephraim Sheyin, appreciated the visit and promised better collaboration with Star Plus. NAN reports that Star Plus batteries are locally manufactured with 99.9 per cent of the raw material sourced in Nigeria and with distributors in Lagos, Enugu, Onitsha, Benin, Warri, Ibadan, Abuja and Kano.   (NAN)