Former Golden Eaglets captain Musa Muhammed is yearning for more accolades after hitting a landmark 100 caps in the with HNK Gorica last weekend. The 25-year-old Muhammed who led the national Under-17 to World Cup glory in the United Arab Emirates in 2013, has been a defensive mainstay for the Croatian side following his transfer from Turkish Super Lig side Basaksehir FK in 2018. Though he has a running contract till May 2022, the pacy defender who also led the Flying Eagles to win the U-20 Africa Cup of Nations in 2015, said he was thrilled with his latest achievement, adding he’s still in his good elements to carry on playing for both club and country. “It has been a long journey and I’m super excited after playing my hundredth game for Gorica just last weekend, “ Muhammed said.“ But I’m still looking forward to doing more for the club if I’m given the opportunity.”   Pele hospitalized for urinary tract infection     Liverpool vs Leeds: Klopp unperturbed over Man City recent…     Europa League: Barcelona, Napoli tops Round 16 ties on…   Muhammed is one of the fledges who blossomed under coach Manu Garba at youth international level but has yet to make a splash at full international with few caps shockingly yet with the Super Eagles. - Advertisement - “ Like I said, I’m always ready to do more if given the opportunity whether at club or country level,” the Kano-born Muhammed who captained the Super Eagles B against Atletico Madrid in 2018. “ I put all my efforts when I’m on the field; and I want to carry on playing for Gorica if given the chance ; and I can say the same for the Eagles if given the opportunity.” Coach Garba equally asked for Muhammed’s inclusion in Eagles : “The right back have been one of Super Eagles’ weakling as most of the players that plays there aren’t as good as Musa Mohammed. I remembered the last time he was invited to play in Uyo for the Super Eagles against Atletico Madrid and he did extremely well but since then he has not been given invitation.”