Eyes are on the All Progressives Congress (APC) as it prepares for national convention. As a party with structures to preserve the kernel of  democratic institution, the National Caretaker Committee, on assumption of office, recognised that it cannot entertain the display of impunity in the party, most especially as it regards the crucial processes that would lead to convention. These include the abuse of set constitutional and procedural steps that, if not promptly addressed, may create crisis, both for the convention and future elections. The CECPC has been guided to observe prerequisite processes to the convention, and it has been working to set the party structures aright to ensure compliance with sacrosanct rules and regulations specified by the electoral law. The processes that lead to convention are virtually fixed and conventional – over a fairly long period of time – and are the same for all political parties in the country. The party, under the CECPC, has met the prerequisites of convention preparation, having conducted relatively successful ward, council congresses, and state congresses, across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). - Advertisement - It is expected that the leadership that would be elected at the convention would build on what the committe has done. The CECPC  chairman, Mai Mala Buni, said APC is a stronger than it was years back. He listed his achievements, saying that he has tried to repositioned the party. He spoke on the conscious efforts to bring the party out of conflicts that had bedevilled it, with the emergence of a reconciliation committee that had worked assiduously and recorded successes in some states. The CECPC may have tried to stabilise the party. The party was bedevilled with manyconflicts and litigations, and many members left the fold. The conflict resolution committee set up by CECPC did a good work that led to various consensus agreements that led to the withdrawal of almost all court cases against the party and among members of the party. But, reconciliation is still an unfinished business. The party has lost the governor of Edo State to the main opposition party, but CECPC was able to recreate trust that swells the rank of governors in the party from 19 to 22.   INEC and challenges of 2023     Toast to Omoluabi Ekiti at 64     Fresh hurdles for re-worked Electoral Bill   For the first time in the history of a political party in the country, and as an aftermath of the peace that was restored in the party after the conflict resolution, CECPC organised a nationwide registration that has significantly swollen the population of the party and led to the influx of many bigwigs who had dumped PDP for APC. The committee secretary, Senator John Akpanuedoedehe, said the party now enjoys a robust membership register across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory {FCT}. CECPC set up a constitutional review committee that reviewed the party constitution to give the party a more contemporary and proactive rules of engagement. The party under the administration of CECPC has assumed total ownership of the Party National Secretariat, after meeting all financial commitments with the former owners of the structure. Before now, the building has been held by the party on a yearly rental agreement, a situation that is unbefitting of the status of the APC as a ruling party. Also, when CECPC came on board, the party was hugely indebted to lawyers as a result of many litigations The committee   has offset the bulk of the debt. As part of the preparations for the convention and the 2023 elections, the party began congresses with successful ward congresses across the 36 states and FCT. The ward congresses were uniquely successful, because unlike past experiences of political parties , APC was able to midwife peaceful, seamless congresses without a single report of  litigation. The LGAs congresses were also successful.  The state congresses were conducted towards the end of the year and recorded successes in about 80 percent of the states. With a stronger membership base, influx of political bigwigs from other parties and a the relative success recorded by the reconciliation panel, led by senator Abdullahi Adamu, the condition of the party has improved. The only complaint is that the convention had been postponed twice. But, the party is how ready. The caretaker committee has also  been accused of sit-tight. But, the table is set, folllowing the release of the timetable for the national congress.  Any further delay or postponement of the convention may generate undermine the trust and confidence reposed in the party leadership.