Ace filmmaker, Tunde Kelani, has revealed plans to produce and release a film on the late Fuji Music creator, Dr. Sikiru Ayinde Barrister, MFR, as a way to further immortalise him. He made the revelation while speaking at the grand finale of the BarryFest Fuji music International Festival 2022 at Ilaji Hotels and Resorts, Akanran, Ibadan. Kelani said he had always wanted to produce a film in memory of the Fuji music legend since four years ago and was happy the biopic will be ready by 2023. “I had wanted to talk about this about four years ago. There is a need for us to produce a film in honour of the memory of the man we are celebrating here today. “I am assuring you that a film will soon come out on Dr. Sikiru Ayinde Barrister. In fact, one film will not be enough to document his life and music, but we are starting with this one. - Advertisement - “I want to assure you that the film will be released in 2023 to commemorate the 2023 edition of BarryFest. And I am imploring everybody and lovers of Barrister to contribute to it. “I want it to be a collective effort because the film would be a reflection of the true essence of Yoruba culture and values, as represented in Barry Wonder, in any part of the world,” Kelani said.   New ECOWAS excites Tayo Sobola role     DOTUN TAYLOR: Living in Hollywood changed my ideas about…     Washing plates excites me, says Woli Arole   The event was, indeed, a day of honour for the late Barrister, as fans, admirers and various Fuji musicians gathered to shower accolades and encomiums on him, over a decade after his death. BarryFest is a music festival organised by fans, comprising of 16 clubs, to honour the memory of the late Fuji music superstar, who died on December 16, 2010, at the age of 62. The 16 clubs include Chief Dr. Sikiru Ayinde Fans Club; The Ayinde Barrister Legacy Club; Barry Wonder Fans Club; Sikiru Ayinde Barrister Global Charity Organisation (USA); The Barrybrator Worldwide; Barrister Fans Club and Oludasile Fuji. Tributes were paid to the memory of the late Sikiru Ayinde Barrister and the highlights of the event were the presentation of awards to the late music idol and some other prominent Yoruba musicians. Barrister was given the post-humous award of Evergreen Legend of Fuji Music, Alhaji Chief Kollington Ayinla bagged Grand Legend of Fuji Music, Chief Wasiu Ayinde Marshal received Outstanding Legend of Fuji Music; and Juju music legend, Chief Ebenezer Obey was given the award of Fuji Music Foremost Benefactor Award in recognition of his motivational role in the life of the late Barrister. Other Fuji musicians were also presented with Certificate of Induction into the Fuji Music Hall of Fame, Isolo Fuji Chambers, just as the Ekefa Olubadan, High Chief Lekan Alabi, and Elder Dayo Adeyemi (Hunter) were recognised for preserving Yoruba culture and promoting the legacy of Barrister, respectively. Alhaja Mujidat Agbaje was recognised for being the first person to promote the music and legacy of the late Fuji Music idol on social media, even when Barrister was alive. The secretary of the Planning Committee, BarryFest 2022, Agbaakin Ademola Adesigbin, was presented with the BarryFest 2022 Chairman Award in recognition of his contribution to the success of the event. SPONSORED