The Minister  of Youth and Sports Development Sunday Dare has assured Nigerians that the National Stadium Surulere, Lagos will soon be completed to host sporting activities. In line with his commitment to the speedy completion of the on-going renovation of Sports infrastructures in the country, the Minister inspected the National Stadium, Surulere yesterday to assess the level of work, with a charge to the contractor to complete the rehabilitation on schedule. The minister also added that he was excited the scoreboard was now functioning, the pitch re-grassed, while other facilities like the tartan  tracks, the VIP lounge, spectators stands among others will soon be completed.   Odegbami, Omidiran, others to get Sportsville awards     Iwobi’s Everton hires Lampard     Mbappe agrees £800,000 weekly with Real   “This facility was abandoned  for many years,” Dare said  during the visit. “The stadium, unlike the Abuja Stadium, had zero maintenance fund for almost 17 years, but we got Chief Adebutu Kesington to bring it back to life. Read Also: Dare urges Eagles to focus on World Cup Play-off - Advertisement - “The time needed to get it back to life is much longer than what the eyes can see. The underbelly of the pitch had  to be excavated, new sprinklers installed because the old ones were either  stolen or rotten. The 10 lane tartan tracks are starting  from scratch because we listened to expert advice, the scoreboard  took longer time to dismantle  because it  had become obsolete and had to be replaced with a new one. The decay at the complex has been  on for too long.The person funding the work insisted on the right quality and the International standard before work started.” He further said: ” It took me a while to come here, but my coming is a validation  of the fact that I’m impressed  with the level of work that has been  done. I hope that very soon we can host events here once we get the place functional.  We are going to clear the debris, the grass is being properly  maintained and  the tracks will  soon be laid and we are good to go.”