Premium beer brand Heineken has stepped up its drive in making the UEFA Champions League more entertaining and enjoyable for its loyal consumers and teeming football fans alike. Heineken, the official partner of the world’s most prestigious club football competition is setting up premium viewing experience centres across Nigeria in its bid to add even more glamour to the Champions League viewing experience. Fans will be enjoying these unique premium viewing experiences in Lagos, Abuja, Warri, Enugu and Port Harcourt. The UEFA Champions League is followed by more than a billion people and it is widely regarded as one of the most-watched sporting competitions in the world. Now in its crucial knockout phase, even more people across the globe are fixated on watching Europe’s best teams rub shoulders in the prestigious Champions League.   Ronaldo reaches historic 400 million Insta followers     Lookman expects better days for Foxes     Buhari commissions sports complex in Kuru   - Advertisement - Beyond the exquisite football action across Europe’s biggest arenas, Heineken will be lacing the frenzy nights with plenty of entertainment with some of the country’s biggest artistes. Fans will be treated to half-time entertainment from A-list artistes like FireBoy DML, Davido and Ayra Star to mention a few. There will also be numerous side attractions designed to give guests at the viewing centres an incredible and unforgettable experience. Speaking on the announcement, the Senior Brand Manager, Heineken, Chinwe GregEgu said: “Nigerians are very passionate about football and over the years, we have provided this unique platform every season to bringing the best of excitement of the competition to our numerous consumers and football lovers.” He added: “Heineken as the official sponsors of the UEFA Champions League, we are always delighted at bringing the matches closer to Nigerians with these premium match viewing centres. We have a lot of exciting things lined up for this season’s campaign and we can’t wait to really bring all of it to life.” She added: “In the past, Heineken has hosted global football legends like Celestine Babayaro, Hernan Crespo and lately, Carlos Puyol along with the coveted Champions League Cup here in Nigeria to bring more excitement to the games and more thrills for the fans. This season also promises exciting things that will unfold in the weeks to follow.” SPONSORED