The newly confirmed Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Prof. Rhoda Gumus has expressed shock over reports and petitions accusing her of being a card-carrying member of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Gumus, through her legal firm, Adams Fasingha & Co. on Friday gave 14-day ultimatum to the Convener of Concerned Nigeria, Mr. Deji Adeyanju, Sahara Reporters and Peoples Gazette to retract the allegation and apologise to her or face a legal action. Adams Fasingha & Co in a letter addressed to Adeyanju and dated February 9th said Gumus, a Professor of Chemical Engineering, remained non partisan and never belonged to any political party, including the APC. The letter signed by the firm’s Managing Solicitor, Adams Fasingha, insisted that the academic track records of Gumus convinced President Muhammadu Buhari to nominate her as a commissioner for INEC and forward her name to the National Assembly for confirmation. “Our client was shocked and traumatised to hear that you petitioned her to the Senate President stating false information that she was a card-carrying member of the All Progressives Congress (APC), which is a blatant lie. - Advertisement - “For the records, it is clear that such manifest falsehood is geared towards misleading the general public and drag her good name to the mud”, the letter said.   The best will happen in 2023, says Akiolu     Watching son’s birth changed my life, says…     NYSC warns tertiary institutions against fraudulent…   The letter further described as fake an APC membership slip and register, which Adeyanju and others depended on to make their allegations. It said: “Our client has discovered that her picture was super-imposed to a fake APC register and membership slip. In the said purported register, her signature was forged and thump printed like an illiterate jurat. “Similarly, her name in the said register was concocted without a voter registration number, which ought to be in all membership card or slip. “In your petition to the Senate President, you claim that our client is from Yenagoa Ward 8 whereas our client is from Koroama Ward 9. The effect of this libelous publication had caused our client so much embarrassment and had eroded her dignity in society”. Adams Fasingha & Co advised Adeyanju to retract the malicious petition and publish same in two national daily newspapers in Nigeria within 14 days from February 10th to 23rd. “Take further notice that where you are adamant and refuse to retract this malicious publication, we shall be left with no other alternative than to Institute this matter in a court of law of competent jurisdiction”, the letter said.