Nigeria will look to avoid an upset when they take on Cameroon in the second leg, the fourth round of the African qualifiers for the FIFA U20 Women’s World Cup, Costa Rica 2022. The Falconets thrashed the Central African Republic 11-0 on aggregate before seeing off Congo with a 4-0 first-leg win but were held to a 0-0 first leg draw by Cameroon at Stade de la Reunification on 22 January 2022. The two-time world silver medalists are aiming for a 10th outing in Costa Rica and coach Christopher Danjuma insists his side will leave nothing to chance at the MKO Abiola National Stadium in Abuja. “We are preparing adequately and everyone expected is on the ground and doing great,” Danjuma exclusively told CAFOnline.com.”We are in an excellent mood with everybody on fire because this is the chance to inch close to grabbing the U20 Women’s World Cup ticket and the mentality is to settle for nothing short of victory. - Advertisement - “The match is extremely important to us because Nigeria has always been present at every World Cup edition since its inception. This is a trend that we hope must continue.   AWCON 2022: Seven Falcons hit camp for Lady Elephants     AFSC set to host maiden Pro-Am Golf Tournament     Troost-Ekong doubtful for Burnley   “Some of these young ladies were not privileged to play at the cancelled 2020 edition due to coronavirus outbreak but now this is the lifetime opportunity at the stage to achieve their dreams.” In 2019, the two teams had met for the first time in the African Games final in Morocco, where the Nigerians edged the Cameroonians to the gold on 3-2 on penalties after a 0-0 draw. Following a drab scoreless draw with the Baby Lionesses in Douala, Danjuma is upbeat about his side’s readiness to subdue the Central Africans. “We know a great deal about the Cameroonian team which helped us in drawing out a plan as to what we should be expecting and how to go about it,” the tactician, who also doubles as Nasarawa Amazons head coach continued. “One lesson we learned from the first leg match was that a game has to win during regular time by making sure all the opportunities that come our way is taken and conceding no goal and to always be in front scoring goals throughout the game.  “This is the qualifiers and the target is to be in Costa Rica for the main tournament come August this year. The goal now is that we are consumed by the desire that everything we feel and have about this tie is beating Cameroon and going to the final round.”