The Lagos State Government, through the Lagos State Blood Transfusion Service (LSBTS), has tasked citizens to donate blood voluntarily in other to ensure availability of safe blood and blood products for transfusion in health facilities across the state. This admonition came from the LSBTS Executive Secretary (ES), Dr Bodunrin Osikomaiya, during the deployment of its newly procured bloodmobile, a mobile blood donation vehicle equipped with everything necessary for a blood donation procedure, to the public and corporate organizations. Osikomaiya, who emphasised the huge demand for blood and the need for voluntary blood donation, said about 37 per cent of the population are eligible and clinically fit to donate blood, stressing that someone is in need of blood every two seconds. She noted that one pint of donated blood could save three lives, adding that this is why efforts were being intensified by the state government to meet and surpass the blood requirement through recruiting and retaining voluntary blood donors. “Voluntary blood donors are heroes who deserve to be celebrated every day because the gift they give is the gift of life. We encourage citizens to join this league of lifesavers by donating voluntarily,” Osikomaiya said. - Advertisement - She listed the benefits of donating blood, stressing that voluntary blood donation gives a psychological improvement in the state of mental health. She enjoined citizens who are in good general health and between 18 and 65 to imbibe the culture of voluntary blood donation and donate blood at least once every three months. “Blood donation helps to stimulate production of more blood thus maintaining good health, voluntary blood donors have access to blood without demand for replacement from LBSTS blood banks. Your blood is tested for hemoglobin, packed cell volume (blood level), viral diseases, blood group, Rhesus factor and genotype. It may uncover potential health problems such as elevated blood levels and low blood levels.   Nigeria must bring COVID-19 testing closer to the people     Why local laboratory analysts should be involved in products…     ‘Health insurance coverage still remains very poor’   “It also helps to maintain iron stores at healthy levels, which is linked to low cancer risk and gives an opportunity to blood donors to have their clinical vitals done, including blood pressure, pulse rate, weight, and height.” Noting that the bloodmobile would be going round the state, especially to the public places on donor drives, the ES stated that citizens could also work into any of LSBTS dedicated voluntary blood donation centres at General Hospital, Lagos and General Hospital, Gbagada or the voluntary blood donation centre at the Accident and Emergency Centre at the old Toll Gate and the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja, to donate blood. Speaking at a donor drive at the headquarters of Ibile Oil and Gas, Ikoyi, where the bloodmobile was recently deployed, Osikomaiya explained that the procurement of the mobile blood donation center was approved by the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to aid blood donor drives and ease the conduct of community blood donation outreach campaign across Lagos. She explained further that the bloodmobile, which was designed, configured and assembled out of a new coaster bus by a local engineer based in Lagos, has some remarkable features typical of a standard blood donation center including compartments for registration and blood donor procedure, post donation and relaxation spot, blood storage compartment, two electrical donor chairs and an inbuilt air conditioner. “With this specialised vehicle, our team can conduct donor drives in Lagos communities and public places seamlessly without the encumbrances of having to improvise and repeat set up of blood donation procedures for every donor drive.” Haima Health is an Non-Governmental Organisation created to ensure that demand for blood is adequately met in Nigeria. Since 2015, it has partnered LSBTS on monthly blood drives to improve donor culture among youths. Haima Health began operations by linking voluntary blood donors with sickle cell patients. It has since expanded support to patients in need of transfusions, thereby reducing  stress, expenses and mortality.     SPONSORED