BY the middle of last week, and more than two months after the rival Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) conducted its national convention, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) was still groping in the bush for a clear path to its national convention. All signs at first indicated the convention would miscarry or be postponed by a week or two. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was yet to receive the mandatory 21 days notice prior to the convention. The party’s caretaker chairman, Mai Mala Buni, who is also Yobe State governor, was also bemoaning the disunity in the party, rampant display of ego, elevation of private interest over national interest, and absence of internal democracy. He identified these disabling factors when he spoke through a member of the caretaker committee and former senate president, Ken Nnamani. But he was euphoric that the APC had become the largest party in Africa with a membership population of about 41 million people. Days after scoffers wondered whether the APC would ever get it right, party leaders finally relented and wrote INEC confirming the publicised date of February 26 for its elective convention. Some analysts insisted that there were initial attempts to shift the date, which President Muhammadu Buhari snubbed. But even if the president had nothing to do with the party finally making up its mind to hold the convention as first announced in January, it comes as a relief to party faithful that the APC has thrown down the gauntlet to its members and the opposition. It will sink or swim depending on whether the convention fails or succeeds. The suspicion is that they will patch things up and get the nightmare over with. The convention will, however, not put paid to the foreboding crises consternating party members and opening their flanks to the enemy. Might the party’s size be the reason for its unwieldiness and unruliness? Given the way the chairman basked in the membership drive that produced the 41m membership population, Mr Buni does not think so. As far as he is concerned, size should predispose the party to victory in the coming polls, and perhaps in perpetuity, until another party registers many more millions than the APC. There is absolutely no doubt that the ruling party can’t find its way through the political and administrative thicket it has intrigued into existence by its crazy and rampant conjurations. According to former governor Abdullahi Adamu, who heads the party’s reconciliation committee, the grievances in the party are so many and weighty that he and his committee would need another week to sift through the morass. He had last Monday submitted an interim report and indicated that there was still more to be done to achieve peace in the party. But as the Ekiti State governorship primary and the politics that lathered it showed, more grievances are still oozing out through the cracks. The party will likely be in perpetual turmoil, regardless of the outcome of the convention. If the party does not postpone its convention by declaring a force majeure but goes ahead to conduct it as planned, it will dismiss all mathematical formulae to make the fiesta possible. The reconciliation committee can’t of course reconcile everybody before the convention, and more petitions will still be written and presented in the weeks ahead. Those petitions will not be addressed to everyone’s satisfaction, but one way or the other, after being shamed by the PDP’s successful convention, the APC will conduct its own, if not on February 26 as it has indicated to the electoral umpire, then sometime in March. But by bringing to the fore their party membership drive, which they implausibly hope will make the difference in the polls and perhaps diminish or even make irrelevant their fratricidal proclivities, party leaders wish to draw attention away from the convention and intraparty nightmares giving them sleepless nights. They are unlikely to succeed, for the nightmares will dog their every step regardless of the subterfuges they employ. In 2019, when they subscribed to unconstitutional methods of removing their chairman, they had sown the wind, and must now reap the whirlwind. There is a silent dichotomy seething below the surface in the party. The governors now appear to have the upper hand, having engineered the aforesaid extralegal removal of their chairman and enthroned one of their own, the Yobe governor. Mr Buni has consequently and raucously danced to the governors’ tunes, and has remained at their beck and call. The party’s national assembly members are enraged, and last year attempted a putsch to institute direct primary in selecting party candidates for elective positions, whether at the party or general level, believing the mode would put the governors’ noses out of joint. It was an awkward but well intentioned coup. That it failed had nothing to do with the lawmakers’ bona fides or the logic and sanity of the proposed Electoral Act amendment. It failed because it simply did not make sense, regardless of the undisputable villainy and narrow-mindedness of the rampaging and haughty governors. There is nothing anybody can do to dampen the boisterousness of the governors, not until they are humiliated sometime in the future. The problem in the APC is in large measure the perverse interests of the governors. So when Mr Buni spoke on Monday of party members elevating private interest above national interest, could he be feigning ignorance about where the problem is coming from? - Advertisement - Just as the party embraces the illusion of internal unity despite party leaders’ shenanigans, Mr Buni also rhapsodises the dangerous illusion of party membership as the ultimate decider of elections. Assuming the 41 million members the APC now claims is not an illusion, it remains to be seen how that number, in a free and fair poll, can be translated into dominance and victory. Founded nine years ago, the APC, according to its leaders, boasts more members than the United States Republican Party founded 167 years ago and has 35.73m members, and nearly as many members as the Democratic Party with 48.01m members and founded 194 years ago. What is more, the APC has nearly half the members of the Chinese Communist Party (95m members) founded about 100 years ago, and more than twice the members of the Indian National Congress founded 136 years ago. China and India have populations of 1.402 billion and 1.38 billion respectively. The villainous hope that populous membership ineluctably translates into election victory is trashed by the inability of the US Democratic Party to always win US presidential elections. Even when the Dems held the federal government trifecta (the presidency and majorities in both the US House and US Senate), it had sometimes done so narrowly. In the circumstance, the Democratic Party has won the US presidency only 16 times since its founding in 1828, and currently does not hold majority in state governorships (only 22 out of 50 states) and state legislatures (only 17), and state government trifectas (only 14). The Chinese Communist Party run a meritocracy, the British a parliamentary government, and the US a presidential system. Nigerian leaders and party officials with their poor logic, low scholarship and egregious lack of discipline and foresight do not qualify to lead anything. This column had suggested last November that the APC, though unable to hold a candle to the PDP in party organization, will eventually fumble its way into the maligned convention. Whether that convention will produce great party leaders and then produce standard-bearers that will go on to win elections next year remains to be seen. The jury is, however, out on whether the current set of party leaders and governors is altruistic. The governors, whose lack of moderation in everything has become obvious to the country, are overplaying their hands. They are unlikely to be restrained by anything, not even common sense or their chimerical love for democracy. In all the battles they have set their minds on since they worsted ex-chairman Adams Oshiomhole, they have won. Individually too, some of their members involved in legal escapades against opponents have won litigation jousts by defying jurisprudential gravity. Even the more numerous fighting ninjas of the National Assembly were humiliated in January when their main battle weapon of Electoral Act amendment was neutralised. It is said that there is strength in number, and the governors have continued to give a collective, false and intimidating sense of unity in the APC and PDP. But the unity of the more menacing APC governors will be tested on February 26 when they try to sleep with the same chairmanship maiden, despite some of them being well known political cuckolds. What binds them together is not a recognisable philosophy or even great public interest. They are kept in harness by a despairing and interwoven array of selfish and perverted private interests destined to come in conflict in February, and if not in February, then at the primaries. Sooner or later they will leave harness and exhibit their true preferences and loyalties. They may wish, on the surface, to project a common desire for a president they can trust, preferably one from their ranks, but in the end no compromise will be strong enough to withstand their tribal, religious and sentimental affiliations.     Amuneke predicts tough AFCON final match     Cameroon’s finest artists lined up for AFCON closing…     I’m like you, I know your needs; guber aspirant…   BETWEEN November and December last year, the country was animated by the Electoral Act amendment which proposed the direct primary mode for selecting candidates for elections. Judging from the fiery exchange between those in favour and against the amendment, it was feared that President Muhammadu Buhari might be swayed to assent the bill despite his private misgivings. Finally, Justice minister Abubakar Malami’s written objection probably dissuaded the president from assenting the bill. Last week, during the governorship primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ekiti State gave a definitive verdict on which primary mode was superior. Unfortunately, lost in the din of the controversy late last year was the conflation of the merit of the direct primary mode with the constitutional imposition of ordering all political parties to adopt that mode. Yet the two issues were different. In the end, the president declined assent; and in reworking the bill, the National Assembly eventually expunged the direct primary mode and replaced it with a provision mandating the parties to adopt whichever primary mode suited them out of the three modes of direct, indirect and consensus. Reworking the bill did not, however, mean that direct primary was not the best of the three options. Theoretically, direct primary still seems the most representative of all the modes. But theoretically is as far as the merit of the mode goes. In practice, Ekiti showed very clearly that the controversies over primary mode were superfluous. Former governor Ayo Fayose, who remained the PDP leader in the state, and had continued to nurture the party after he led it to ignominious defeat less than four years ago, breathed down the necks of party delegates as they elected their governorship candidate through the indirect primary mode. Angry and disaffected former governor Segun Oni, who also contested the primary, believed Mr Fayose had sold the governorship to the APC by cajoling delegates to elect, Bisi Kolawole, whom he added would be worsted by the APC’s Biodun Oyebanji. Nonsense, said Mr Fayose, the primary was free and fair, and the candidate would spring a surprise. What cannot be disputed, however, is that as arithmetically sensible as the outcome was, the former PDP governor heavily influenced the voting process to his desired end. It seemed as if the indirect primary mode was after all not immune to manipulation, as the National Assembly had feared. On the other hand, the APC deployed the National Assembly’s beloved direct primary mode. The first four aspirants on the APC governorship list were each probably stronger than the governorship candidate of the PDP, but that was where the comparison ended. The state APC claimed to have over 183,000 members on its register, out of which over 101,000, more than 50 percent, voted for the eventual winner of the primary. The percentage turnout was unprecedented in Nigeria’s electoral history, matched only by the dizzying turnout witnessed in last June’s Anambra governorship APC primary that produced Andy Uba as candidate with a stratospheric 230,201 votes out of a total 348,490 APC votes. In the main election, however, Mr Uba got a measly 43,285 votes, while the eventual winner of the governorship poll, Chukwuma Soludo, got 112,229 votes, about half of Mr Uba’s primary election votes. The turnout was a little over 10 percent. So much for direct primary. There is obviously no settling the precedence between the hammer of PDP’s indirect primary and the sickle of APC’s direct primary, between Mr Fayose’s irreverent politicking and Governor Kayode Fayemi’s Machiavellian tactics. In the hands of non-democrats, any primary mode is susceptible to gross influences of the most nefarious kind. It is unlikely the National Assembly, in contending for direct primary, thought their amendment through beyond its meretricious beauty and theoretical nicety. Both the national lawmakers and their supporters were sentimental and superficial in their consideration of the amendment in favour of direct primary. Hopefully, everyone has learnt a lesson. Without a massive restructuring of the country to settle many of the country’s foundational issues, including if and how the peoples of Nigeria must relate, tinkering with the system, including something as minute and undistinguished as mode of primary, will always end up with a worst tear of the national fabric.   BORNO State governor Babagana Zulum’s warning that Islamic State in West Africa Province (ISWAP) might overrun a part of Nigeria, presenting a security conundrum for Nigeria, must be taken seriously. The state is the epicenter of a revolt begun by Boko Haram in 2009 that destabilises a significant part of the Northeast. Prof Zulum is predictably agitated. His state has suffered untold collateral damage, human and material, as a result of the insurgency, and is perpetually on edge. Both ISWAP and Boko Haram have not hidden their desire to establish a caliphate, and having seen Nigeria’s shambolic response to the revolt, not to say the corruption and confusion that have hallmarked that response, they believe they can outlast the country, and probably outthink it. Having lasted for all of 13 years, an embarrassment to the Nigerian military which proved itself and solidified its reputation during the civil war and many peacekeeping operations, including ECOMOG in Liberia and Sierra Leone, it has seemed to many Nigerians and more keenly to Boko Haram and ISWAP militants, that this could be a long, very long war. Prof Zulum is uncomfortable with the duration of the insurgency, and has asked for an upgrade of strategy and logistics to deal decisively with the situation before it gets out of hand. If not dealt with now, he warned, ISWAP would prove a major existential threat to Nigeria. And as far as he is concerned, his state, having borne the brunt of the human suffering and infrastructural damage, he believes no option, including contracting mercenaries, should be ruled out. He is right. The fight is urgent, before it metastasizes. The alternative is simply too grim to contemplate.