The nation’s drive for self-sufficiency in cement production is gradually being realised with the current output of BUA Group and other cement firms manufacturing efforts. SIMEON EBULU writes Of the forty one, or forty three items that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) restricted forex access on the ground that the products can be produced locally, cement appears to be about the only one which local production level has progressed close to that expectation, or near that projection. The CBN in June 2015 excluded importers of 41 goods and services from accessing foreign exchange at the Nigerian foreign exchange markets in order to encourage local production of these items. This action was also taken in furtherance of the apex bank’s efforts to sustain foreign exchange market stability and ensure the efficient utilisation of the nation’s forex, as well as ensuring that optimum benefit is derived from goods and services imported into the country. Although the measured policy jolted many operators in the affected sectors, and still remains a subject of intense discourse across Nigeria’s manufacturing value chain, it became to a large extent, an elixir and a welcome challenge to others, especially manufacturers of building materials and other related fields. The specific segment where this policy has made tremendous impact and to which both the government and the CBN are beating their chest, is in the cement arena. - Advertisement - President Muhammadu Buhari has often referenced cement out as one area where his government’s policy of backward integration has succeeded the most, and the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, has left no one in doubt that the regulator made the right decision when it clamped forex disbursement to the listed items for which forex access was restricted for their importation, given the stride already attained by local cement manufacturers since the policy was conceived and implemented. The unveiling, two weeks ago of BUA Cement Sokoto Line 4 by Buhari, attended by CBN officials, banking sector executives, investment icons and governors from Nigeria’s Northwest’s six states, industry barons, including Cement Manufacturers’ Association of Nigeria, led by its Chairman, Mohammed Lawal Bello, other  interest groups and cement distribution companies, provided yet another opportunity for the government and the CBN, among others to list the benefits and achievements of the forex restriction measure announced about seven years ago. Without mincing words, Buhari, at the unveiling ceremony, said the Federal Government’s policies on economic diversification, job creation and creating an enabling environment for businesses to thrive were working. He pledged to continue his administration’s support for ‘serious investors’ to set up businesses that will take advantage of huge reserves of resources in different parts of the country. While commending the Founder and Chairman, BUA GROUP, Abdul Samad Rabiu, Buhari said he was satisfied with the conglomerate and its team for the ‘great work they are doing’ in supporting the government’s economic diversification and job creation agenda, recalling that as Head of State, in 1985, he had also inaugurated Line 2 at the same plant, adding, “today, almost 37 years later, to commission the fourth line is a very special day for me personally. ”As you all know, one of the key economic pillars of our administration has been to create an enabling environment for businesses to thrive. This is necessary for job creation and indeed, for our economy and national security.” On his part, Emefiele expressed no less fulfillment and delight at the commissioning ceremony of the Line 4 ultra-modern three million tonnes per annum BUA Cement manufacturing plant.   NBS urges mass production of cotton for industries’…     Nigeria gets 1.72m barrels OPEC quota     ‘Tech can accelerate ISO certification process’   His words: “I am particularly delighted to see that the painstaking efforts and ingenuity of Nigeria’s private sector is yielding bountiful fruits in broad daylight. These efforts are critical complementary ingredients to reducing unemployment and boosting production activities in our country. Not least, also, these investments help to support the CBN’s mandate of promoting stable macro-economic growth in the country.  ”The BUA Group’s investment in Sokoto and in other parts of Nigeria reflects their belief in our country, and in the immense opportunities available in the industrial sector, given the abundance of human and natural resources in Nigeria. I am aware that this facility which cost millions of US Dollars was fully funded by equity contributions of the BUA Group without resorting to any source of external finance,” Emefiele stated. Elaborating on the forex restriction issue, the CBN chief said part of the aim was to steer our economy from its dependence on imports, towards one that is self-reliant, and that which enables Nigerians to produce what they consume and eat what they produce. He said as part of the efforts to drive productivity in the industrial sector and to conserve our foreign exchange reserves, a decision was taken by the government in 2015 to restrict access to foreign exchange for imports of 43 items which could be produced in Nigeria, but for which billions of US Dollars were being expended annually on imports. “One of the restricted items,” he said, “was cement. “In making this decision, Emefiele stated, “we were aware that the key raw material required for the production of cement is limestone, which is readily available across the country. “ With the  implementation of this new directive, I am pleased to note that the production capacity of the cement industry in Nigeria has doubled from 30 million tonnes in 2014 to about 60 million tonnes in 2021. Consequent upon this investment by local businessmen into the cement manufacturing sector, our nation has been able to conserve billions of dollars, as no dollar from our external reserves has been spent on import of cement into the country in the last six years. He said these investments have saved and equally created several thousands of jobs across multiple sectors of the economy, saying that these gains are not a coincidence but are a reflection of the success of the backward integration policy of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. Emefiele assured both current and prospective operators in the industrial sector that the CBN is prepared to continue to collaborate with them in enabling the development of a viable manufacturing sector in Nigeria, saying for those who are willing to invest in new greenfield or existing brownfield projects, the CBN will provide all the support needed, both in Naira and dollars needed to import plants and equipment to actualise these investments. This stance is directly in harmony with our resolve to create a professional and people-centred Central Bank that will act as a financial catalyst for job creation and inclusive economic growth in Nigeria. BUA GROUP’s chair, Rabiu, said the unveiling of the SOKOTO Cement Line 4, is another affirmation of the government’s unwavering commitment to Nigerian businesses and Buhari’s vision to industrialising Nigeria. He said the group had a vision to support  government’s infrastructure agenda by ensuring that the firm uses locally available raw materials to produce cement here in Nigeria, saying in the past six years, BUA Group has completed four plants – two in Obu, Edo State and two in Sokoto. Rabiu said the group is on the verge of completing the construction of two new plants of three million metric tonnes each which will bring “our total production capacity to 17million metric tonnes,” stressing that BUA will continue to invest more in the cement industry until Nigeria is self-sufficient and cement is made available, accessible and affordable for all Nigerians.” Rabiu told Buhari that there are many reasons why the BUA Sokoto Cement Plant is unique, saying, investments in the new factories go beyond the community and the state, saying “ it extends to the region and the entire country. ”From a job creation and economic standpoint, the Sokoto plant continues to be the largest private sector employer of labour in the North-Western part of Nigeria. Also, by adding value to resources mined in Nigeria, the country is being saved billions of US dollars in foreign exchange that would have been spent on importation, whilst also ensuring product availability. In fact, 95 per cent of all the raw materials used in our cement manufacturing process are sourced locally,” he said.