Teenager Peace Lekwot who carted two gold medals in a single day at the Nigeria School Sports Federation (NSSF) World School Athletics Trial held at the Yaba College of Technology, said her best is yet to come. The student from Kaduna-based Faith Academy defied the odds to win both the girl’s long and high jumps events ahead of other athletes from 15 states. Apart from winning gold medals of the two events, she also erased her own personal best (PB) in the events to the admiration of coach Felix Osiebe. Lekwot leaped 5.30m in the long jump event to erase her PB of 5.26m while in the high jump she set a new PB of 1.50m to delete the former PB of 1.45m. An excited teenager described her feat as a reward for hardwork. She said: “When we were coming to Lagos, we missed her flight to Lagos on Monday because of vehicular traffic between Kaduna and Abuja.   Topfield retains Doregos basketball title     NFF rolls out new qualification criteria for match…     EUROPA LEAGUE: Aribo shines in Rangers’ rout of Dortmund   - Advertisement - “ So we had to reschedule our flight to midnight and we arrived at Lagos at 2am where we had to sleep at the Lagos airport. We would have decided to forfeit the trip but we were determined to make it to Lagos.  “My coach encouraged me to give my best and when I saw the line-up of athletes across the country, I summoned courage to give my best which helped me to jump new PB in the two events. “Athletics has been part of me when I was in primary school at Kingdom Heritage and it was after watching Ese Brume doing the country proud at international stage that further ignited my passion for the sport. So my target is to become the best in Nigeria and in the world by exceeding the feat set by Brume,” she added. Over 16 states including FCT Abuja featured 536 athletes from 202 schools including private schools like Igbobi College, Doregos Private Academy, The Bells, Baptist Academy among others took part in the championship which served as trial to select Nigeria’s contingent for the 2022 World School Athletics Championships taking place later in the year. Among the states that took part in the trial include host – Lagos, Ogun, Kaduna, Taraba, Bayelsa, Ondo, Oyo, Ekiti, Adamawa, Kogi and others. SPONSORED