pular musicians who strangely predicted their own death: 1. Juice Wrld  Across the standout single “Wishing Well”, Juice Wrld sounds all too aware of how his drug addiction could lead to tragedy; “But if I keep taking these pills, I won’t be here.”. He also appears to predict his own death in another song titled “Legends’ where he talked about not making it past 21; “What’s the 27 club? / We ain’t making it past 21,” he raps. “I been going through paranoia / So I always gotta keep a gun / Damn, that’s the world we live in now / Yeah, hold on, just hear me out.” At 21, he overdosed on codeine and oxycodone. 2. Notorious B.I.G  When legendary Biggie Smalls wrote the lyrics to the song “Suicidal Thoughts,” many people assumed he was just being paranoid. When the rapper was killed in a drive-by shooting in Los Angeles in 1997, the song looked to be a spectral foreshadowing of the fatal incident. He rapped: “I’m glad I’m dead… I swear to God I feel like death is f**king calling me.” 3. Tupac Shakur  A few months before Tupac was tragically murdered in a drive-by shooting in Las Vegas, the rapper featured on a song by Richie Rich called ‘N*ggas Done Changed’. On the track, Shakur eerily raps about being shot and murdered. Because the lyrics are so accurate, many people believe his death was staged. “I been shot and murdered, can tell you how it happened word for word/ But best believe n*ggas gon’ get what they deserve,” he rapped.   PHOTOS: Osogbo agog as Tinubu visits Ataoja     Igboho fate’s at Beninoise prison hangs in balance     Attacked Imo camp not our own – IPOB   4. Avicii  Avicii saw it coming. As reported by Cosmopolitan, the Swedish musician and DJ behind “Wake Me Up,” whose real name was Tim Bergling, said in a 2017 documentary that if he didn’t retire from performing, he was going to die. This certainty of impending death seems to be what motivated his 2016 retirement, as he felt that his health problems and alcoholic tendencies would overwhelm him if he didn’t step back from the spotlight. But he said he still felt a constant pressure to do more gigs, despite the anxiety it gave him. Sadly, in 2018, Avicii was found dead in Oman’s Muscat Hills Resort. Bergling’s family later released a public statement that implied he had killed himself. At the time of his death, Bergling was only 28. 5. Amy Winehouse  Amy Winehouse’s friend Alex Foden said she knew she wasn’t destined for long life. “Amy always told me she thought she would die young and that she knew she’d become a part of the ’27 Club,'” which by the way is that long list of artists who died at 27, including popular Kurt Cobain. Winehouse did, in fact, die in 2011 at the age of 27 from alcohol poisoning. 6. Proof  Eminem’s best friend Proof passed away after a tragic shooting in a Detroit nightclub. However, the D12 rapper had already strangely predicted his death on a song called ’40 oz’. He rapped: “I’m in the club to beef, you gotta murder me there”. The tragedy was also played out in Eminem’s ‘Toy Soldiers’ video, with Proof eerily playing the rapper who was shot dead in the club.