Sterling Bank Plc has committed to extend credit facilities worth N1 billion to businesses founded by women across the country with a free interest rate for the first 30 days. Managing Director, Sterling Bank Plc, Mr. Abubakar Suleiman, who spoke at the fifth Women Founders Conference in Kano, said the bank is also prepared to invest another $100,000 in the next two years in such female-owned businesses. He told the audience that as entrepreneurs, the women will always be exposed to diverse opinions but they should always remember why they set up those businesses in the first place. According to him, the best business is that which is set up to solve a problem. “When a customer continues to validate the product or service of a business as a solution to its problem, then everyone will queue behind it,” Suleiman said. - Advertisement - Head, Sterling’s OneWoman proposition, Ifunanya Ugboko, noted that the collaboration with the Women Founder’s Conference was an evidence of Sterling Bank’s commitment to enriching women’s lives. She said Sterling Bank, through the OneWoman offering, has created dedicated discounted business loans, support facilities, and capacity-building programs for businesses founded for and focused on women.   ICAN urges National Assembly to review Act     Lagos backs economic policy implementation     ‘Nigeria produces 20 million metric tons of maize’   Also speaking, a co-founder of Startup Kano, Aisha Tofa, said the project was set up in order to create a platform for young people to interact, network and provide solutions and opportunities among themselves on the realisation that jobs were unavailable for youths. It was against this background that Sterling Bank in collaboration with Startup Kano organised the 5th edition of the Women Founders Conference 2022, to focus on mentoring women in start-up businesses as well as to promote the involvement of youths, young women in agribusiness and technology in Kano. About 800 entrepreneurs attended the programme and 10 entrepreneurs out of about 200 applicants received start-up grants of N50,000 each to support their businesses. A participant at the conference who is also a caterer, Maryam Umar, said the conference has inspired and helped her to network with other women in business. “I am excited to have met and discussed with great minds and strong women in businesses and I have also learned from their stories which can help me to surmount the challenges in my business,” Umar said. Another participant, Amira Yusif said she would leverage on the innovative ideas discussed at the gathering to promote her business and increase her customer base. Apart from Suleiman, other facilitators included Hajia Amal Hassan, Chief Executive Officer of Outsource Global; Zainab Buba Galadima; Hauwa Bako, Chief Executive Officer, HB Green Acres Farm & Agro Allied Limited; Hajara Masaga, Founder of The Airmingle and Dr. Amina Sambo Magaji of the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) among others.