The All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Ekiti State  Biodun Oyebanji has said that the ruling party will retain power in the Fountain of Knowledge. He called for unity and cohesion among party faithful, ahead of the poll The primary was presumed to be fierce, owing to the personalities that purchased the nomination and expression of interest forms. The aspirants were Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, Senator Dayo Adeyeye, Femi Bamisile, Bamidele Faparusi, Olusola Afolabi, Demola Popoola and Kayode Ojo and former Secretary to the Ekiti State Government, Abiodun Oyebanji. Political pundits had however, predicted the contest to be a two horse race between Oyebanji and Senator Bamidele. - Advertisement - Governor Kayode Fayemi, it was learnt, had pushed for the use of indirect method to conduct the primary but other aspirants protested and insisted on the use of direct primary to allow members of the party participate in the process. The protest by the aspirants was due to allegation that the party structure was under the grip of the Governor whom they alleged would not provide a level playing field. On the day scheduled for the primary, security was beefed up around the state secretariat of the Ekiti APC and other venues where the primary was to hold. Governor Fayemi had declared that day a work free day. Chairman of the Ekiti APC Primary Committee and Governor of Jigawa State, Mohammed Baduru, who addressed the aspirants the previous day promised a free and fair contest. He vowed not to accept any results written in hotel rooms Few hours to the commencement of the primary, seven of the aspirants stormed the APC secretariat demanding for suspension of the primary. They claimed the process had been skewed to favour Governor Fayemi. The protesting aspirants said all Returning Officers for the primary were political appointees of the Governor. Despite their protest, the primary went on as scheduled. Members of the APC trooped out in large numbers to participate in choosing the party’s flag bearer. They were asked to produce their party’s membership cards and Permanent Voters Card before being allowed to queue behind their preferred aspirants at the different local government monitored. However, agents of many of the aspirants were absent at polling units. Returning Officers at the various Wards said only one agent standing for Oyebanji turned up. The primaries were peaceful in areas monitored. Adewumi Joseph, the Returning Officer for Ward One Igogo in Moba local government said he was surprised to see only Oyebanji agent present. “Only one agent showed up. Others did not present any agent. As you can see, we are peaceful here. No problem.” At Ward 7, Ijesha Modu, Ilejemeje local government, agents of Kayode Ojo, Bamidele Opeyemi were seen standing alongside Oyebanji’s agent. Only the agents of Oyebanji were seen in places such as Okeero LCDA Ward one and two, several wards in Idosi local government such as Usi, Aaye Ifishi Igbole ward, Orin ora and Ward 3 and 2 in Moba local government. A member of the APC Primary Committee and formal spokesman of the party, Mallam Lanre Issa Onilu, who monitored the party primary urged party members to be law abiding and avoid rancorous situations. Mallam Onilu told reporters that all measures were put in place to ensure all the aspirants were involved in the whole process.   ‘We need reconciliation in Bayelsa APC’     Osun 2022: Osun IPAC cautions politicians     2023: Ohaneze insists on zoning presidency to South East   - Advertisement - He said, “We had a meeting with them yesterday and the party leaders in the state and they made input. They contributed to the process. We are doing everything based on consensus on what all of us agree to do. That explains the peaceful nature of the exercise. “I went round and you see me asking the agents if they were denied anything or rights and they said no. No aspirant is denied his right. That was why I asked specific question. There was not a single negative report. “What is the need for suspension of the primary. What will conceded to the aspirants by allowing them to make input was not our responsibility. We want a credible outcome. If you ask the aspirants the basis for calling for cancellation, they wouldn’t be able to point to anything. We expected before today for everyone to be ready for the primary. We were ready and we were able to achieve this progress. “We have no such report of any aspirant stepping down from the race.” There were however no primary in some Wards of Ifelodun, Ekiti East local government, Returning Officers said acts of violence were recorded in those areas where elections did not hold. Announcing Oyebanji winner of the election, Governor Baduru said he (Oyebanji) polled 101,703 while his closest rival, Senator Bamidele got 760 votes. Other aspirants such as Faparusi secured 367 votee, Engr Kayode Ojo got 767 votes, Hon Bamisile Femi garnered 400 votes, Senator Dayo Adeyeye got 691 votes, Otunba Pópó?lá Demola got 239 and Toyin Afolabi Olusola got 47 votes. Baduru said 107, 877 APC members were accredited but 104, 993 voted. He praised the Ekiti APC members for conducting peaceful primary and ensuring that the committee did not receive any reports of violence. He expressed worry that some aspirants protested seeking suspension of the exercise adding that all the aspirants agreed on the mode of primary. Baduru said the aspirants were allowed to bring 20 persons each to be part of the Returning Officers. His words, “We all agreed on the mode of this primary. Seven of them out of eight agreed on so many issues including the Returning Officers. We agreed for them to submit 20 names. “Most of them submitted names. I am surprised to hear that they were not consulted. “Primaries took place in all the 177 Wards except some that were having problem. Primaries were conducted freely and fairly. I got reports from all the 177 Wards.” In his acceptance speech, Oyebanji said he would work with other aspirants towards electoral victory and ‘a bright future for our people.’ Oyebanji promised to reach out personally to seek audience with the aggrieved aspirants to listen to them for the purpose of running a wholesome campaign that connects with the hearts and minds of the Ekiti people. He said, “We have a huge mission ahead of us to retain the governance of our dear state under our great party, and to ensure the continuity of our progressive programmes and policies as established by our leaders. “To political teams on all sides, I say please, forgive all slights both real and imagined and let us all move forward as one. “We shall continue to sell our candidacy based on our track record of competence, compassion, and character, as well as our vision for moving Ekiti State forward.”   SPONSORED