The National Chairman of Accord Party, Muhammad Nalado, on yesterday said that top members of the party is in  talks with external bodies to win governorship position. Nalado also said that the party is strategising towards the 2023 presidential election. Nalado, who made this known   during the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the party in Abuja, added that the party’s plans would be achieved through effective collaboration of party members. He emphasized that Accord had always fielded candidates during every election since it was formed in 2006, adding that the party has always won an elective position. He said the NEC meeting is called to help the party put in place a strategy that will enable it win elections in the forthcoming national election in 2023.   2023: Vote for trusted leaders, says clergy     Yiaga Africa trains 74 legislative aides     Court remands 4 brothers for allegedly killing man in police…   - Advertisement - This, he said, will be made possible through the enduring peace in the party, contrary to what obtains in both the ruling and opposition Peoples Democratic Party and All Progressive Congress. Describing his Party as the alternative in the country, Nalado said they were working hard to make sure that the Accord party is the number one party in the country. He said: “The NEC is strategizing on how we are going to be the alternative party in the country to take over governance. Everybody knows that Accord has been very consistent since we were registered. In Accord we are working like a family. We have our internal problems but we have a very good mechanism to resolve our differences. We want to be the number one party. “By the grace of God, come 2023, the Accord Party is going to occupy Aso Rock. With the efforts we are putting in place and the response we are getting from the public and the commendations, we are going to surprise Nigerians. “We have been working very hard. The Accord Party is the only party that doesn’t have external influence. We believe with the contacts our stakeholders are making, we believe with the feeling of Nigerians over the failed promises of the ruling party, people will look at our direction. “We are growing every day. We are going to discuss 2023 in our NEC meeting; we are going to discuss our strategy, mobilization and many other things. We are going to take the due process to make sure we arrive at where we can take over from the ruling party.” SPONSORED