The Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has bowed to pressure and rescheduled the party’s National Convention for March 26 at Eagle Square, Abuja. The decision to this effect was reached at the 20th regular meeting of the caretaker committee in Abuja on Monday. Addressing the newsmen after the meeting that lasted almost three hours, the Secretary of the CECPC, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe said: “We have agreed and approved that activities for the party’s national convention will commence from Feb. 24 and terminates on March 26 at Eagle Square with the National Convention. “In between the convention, we have agreed to have zonal congresses and all the activities are hereby given as approved by the CECPC.” Efforts to get information on the convention failed as the Secretary refused further comment but only handed over the Schedule of Activities for the zonal congresses and the national convention to the newsmen. - Advertisement - A close source to the CECPC meeting, who spoke in confidence, said the committee had to retrace its steps and accommodate the national convention at its Monday meeting as a last resort to placard members. “The caretaker committee ran into a problem when the criticism greeted the leaked letter to INEC informing the electoral body of the zonal congress in place of the national convention.   Four NSCDC operatives, one injured as terrorists bomb Niger…     Alleged fake PhD Certificate: ICPC receives three petitions…     BREAKING: APC makes U-turn, reschedules National Convention…   “Acting on security and intelligence reports on party members’ reactions to zonal congresses, the meeting had to repackage the schedule of activities to accommodate the convention. “The Secretary was directed to send a new letter reflecting the new dates arrived at today’s caretaker committee meeting to INEC by tomorrow unfailingly,” a source disclosed. By the schedule of activities for the zonal congresses and national convention in pursuant of Article 12.6 of the party’s Constitution, the zonal congresses will hold on March 12, 2022. A letter written by the party to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), a copy of which was received by newsmen by the party, informed the electoral body of its intention to conduct zonal congresses on March 26. The party, in the letter of notice to the Chairman of INEC dated February 21, 2022 with reference number APC/NHDQ/INEC/019/22/21 fixed March 26, 2022, for the conduct of the zonal congresses. The letter jointly signed by the caretaker committee chairman and Secretary, Hon. Mai Mala Buni and Senator John James Akpanudoedehe respectively titled: “Notice for the conduct of zonal congresses” reads: “This notice supersedes our earlier notice for National Convention with reference APC/NHDQ/INEC/019/22/14 this is predicated on the evaluation of our Party Constitution. “In furtherance to Article 85 of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) and compliance with Section 12:6 of our Party Constitution we hereby write to notify the Commission that our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has scheduled to hold its Zonal Congresses on Saturday 26 March 2022.” The Mai Mala Buni-led CECPC was inaugurated on June 25, 2020 to conduct a national convention to elect new members of the dissolved Adams Oshiomole-led National Working Committee within six months. SPONSORED