I want  to use the actions of some politicians and world leaders this week to illustrate the topic of the day . In  the world of the last week the most important man and leader  was Russia’s President Vladmir  Putin who finally launched a’ military action’ against Ukraine   which his main adversary , US President Joe Biden   called  the beginning of the’ Russian invasion of Ukraine ‘.  In  the Nigerian Legislature  a  bill  is being  proposed as a constitutional amendment to grant life pension to its main officers namely the President of the Senate and his Deputy as well as the Speaker of the House of Representatives and his Deputy .  The  motives and consequences of these two diverse events as well as their ethical , diplomatic  ,cultural  and political implications ,  form the kernel  of our discussion today . I  start with a general  censure  for the actions   of  Putin , Biden and the  honorable members of the Nigerian legislature as being   so   insensitive and nonchalant to public interest,    goodwill   and peace in the way they have come into the news this last week . I will make preliminary  observations before I conclude with glaring examples of their leadership  deficiencies and greed in the way and manner they have acted in the light of the topic of the day . We  start with Russian President Vladmir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine , the preparations of which the west saw with the aid of technology and thought  ,  stupidly    ,   that  it  would   be deterred  by the threat of economic  sanctions . Putin’s  action  on Ukraine has shown  the failure of both diplomacy  and  the   threat    of sanctions as  bargaining weapons      to prevent war  in modern times . It  is the dawn of a new era in political  culture and international  relations . Just  imagine , the west  ,namely NATO , US , UK   saw war  coming like the proverbial handwriting on the wall  and  did  nothing pragmatic to deter or stop Russia except to dangle sanctions which  obviously irritated and infuriated the Russian leader to pursue his objectives on security which the west both ignored and  denied .  Putin’s  security  concerns were clear on security and Russian   sovereign self  interests . He  warned that Ukraine should never join NATO , because  if it does , Russia will  have to fight NATO as any attack on any member of NATO is  regarded by NATO’ s treaty as an attack on NATO  calling for  a joint defence . Putin  warned that if Ukraine joins NATO , Crimea , which Russia seized in 2014  will  be retrieved by Ukraine with NATO  help .Thirdly Putin wants  NATO not  to send weapons to it new members like Poland and the Baltic states which  joined NATO in 1997 . All  the three security  concerns of Putin are incompatible with NATO’s  strategic security interests since the end of the  WW2 , the beginning  of the Cold War with USSR and  the disintegration of the Soviet Union under Gorbachev in 1991 . Now  after checking  the waters in Moldova , Georgia , and Crimea and getting  away with murder in International Relations and diplomacy , Putin has come of age  in seeing  that the west is weakened  by cultural  values on sex and family and is riddled by liberalism and disorder on human rights  . An  Ukranian  lady   summed  it up succinctly when  she said Putin does  not respect either democracy  or diplomacy and thinks both  are  idiotic . I  cannot agree more as Putin  bares the Russain bear’s  fangs  -and like Shakespeare  noted  in the timeless piece called Henry V  ,  dares   the west –‘   When the sounds of war  blows in our ears , then imitate the action of  the Tiger .’   Biden nominates first black woman for U.S. Supreme Court     130 children charged with murder, rape, robbery released in…     Wanted! A Nigerian president (2)   The  impotence of the west and blind belief in diplomacy   are  best  seen in the  meeting of the  Security Council  in the UN even as the Russian Ambassador was denying the invasion and the Ukranean Ambassador  was asking him  directly to use his smart phone  to call  his masters in Moscow . The  US  President  promised not to send US troops  and kept his promise. Germany  too stopped approval  for the oil pipelines and the US sent its VP Kamilla Harris  to a NATO security meeting in Germany. The American  VP spoke in such a disjointed  manner that a Fox News Columnist observed most wickedly that Putin would find it unbelievable that the US , a Super power  will  be led by a senile man and an imbecile . All  what Biden  could offer was a last ditch meeting with Putin provided the invasion had not happened but it did and the meeting was cancelled . The  role of western intelligence baffled me no end as to its goals  or objectives . Intelligence should be used to stop the enemy in its tracks on its next action and avert hostility and tragedy . In   this unfolding Ukraine Crisis  western , intelligence , the NATO Chief ,  the US Secretary of State Anthony  Blinken as  well as his UK  counterpart , knew what the Russians were up to but did nothing to thwart them except  to arrange  more security meetings . It  was as if they were the  outside BBC broadcast  service  for the invading Russian army . The  spectacle  was a  grim lesson in the failure of diplomacy and celebration of inertia in the face of great  danger . Obviously western civilization has shot itself in the leg with the way it has handled Putin and should brace itself  for the   menace    and   murderous    nuisance  of  another Hitler  with  a well armed and well positioned  army  at his beck and call . History  as they say is surely  repeating itself right before  our eyes . It  may seem  less tragic or dangerous to human  lives , as in a war ,  to compare the payment of life pensions  to Nigerian legislators as  is being  contemplated  this last week . But  the comparison is apt  in that  it  is an invasion of  an entitlement  for which they are  not entitled by law , culture , ethics and human rights . The  analogy is that they are violating the pensions rights and goals of Nigerians just  like Putin has violated the sovereignty of Ukraine   while those  who should stop him were  literally applauding him from afar albeit  with promised sanctions . The  political  culture for this constitutional  misstep  was laid  by section 84 [ 5]  of the Nigerian constitution which  guarantees  life  pensions for all presidents and vice  presidents  and  on which  the nation  reportedly  spends about 7.8 bn naira  annually . This  proposal  should  not be allowed to see the light of day and we need to look at the concept  ,  objectives   and  origins  of pensions generally . Pensions are a form of security    ,  insurance   and comfort  against the rainy  day after long service in the public or private sectors . It  is a earned income and can be contributory or not . It is not meant  for those elected to short political terms like politicians which  the legislators are  . Politicians  are meant to serve the public and are well  paid to do these especially  with  constituents allocations . Elected officials  have tenure and are not meant  to serve for life in a democracy . They are not supposed to make laws for their selfish ends  as the Nigerian legislators  are contemplating . It  is immoral and self serving . In a nation where military and Railway and Aviation pensioners collapse and die while waiting  for pensions  on long queues ,  it  is bad  to have life  pensions for high  spending legislators who pad state and national budgets instead  of cutting costs and expenditure proposed  by the executive as expected in a presidential  system of government . If  the greedy aim of the legislators is to assure their comfort after their short political  terms  of office they  should be warned  that  the public would  eye  them  differently , armed with  the knowledge  that they are reaping where they did not sow and that  would put their security in jeorpady for  life as they would be seen as living  on borrowed robes . Which  is the same thing as stolen money . The  ball is in their court  for  good  or bad .