Three expectant women have been delivered of their babies in the bush after fleeing from a terror attack in Niger State. The women were among many forced from their homes when gunmen attacked communities in Magama council of the state at the weekend. The Nation learnt that the attack began on Friday and continued till yesterday afternoon. The communities attacked were Mabirni, Zoma, Bado, Yangalu, Buga Zabbi and Ataba. It was learnt that people were killed and abducted in the attacks but the number of those killed and taken away was unknown at press time. - Advertisement - However, one of the three women who put to bed in the bush was said to be missing but her baby was found alone by other fleeing villagers. Magama council chair, Safiyanu Garba Ibeto, confirmed that terrorists invaded the local government, adding that the residents were in danger.   Suspected ritualists lynched in Ogun     Osinbajo off to Liberia for bicentennial anniversary     Death toll in Lagos collapsed building now five   “The bandits entered Magama local government through Mabirni, Zoma, Bado, Yangalu. Presently, they are about 23km to Ibeto,” he said. An elderly woman identified as Malama Khadijat Abdullahi explained that two of her daughters were among the abductees, adding that the bandits have contacted the family demanding N3 million. Most of the attacked villages were deserted yesterday morning, with the bandits still operating in some villages where they were gathering cattle for rustling, it was said. Most of the residents of the affected communities have taken refuge in Kontagora. Police said yesterday that they rescued 20 abducted victims and recovered large herds of cattle from the terrorists. Spokesman Abiodun Wasiu said in a statement yesterday that the security task force neutralised a large number of the terrorists, though the number of the killed was not given. “Tactical teams of the Command sent for reinforcement to the area and military personnel with the vigilante engaged the bandits in a fierce gun battle along Ibeto cattle route which lasted for about two hours while the hoodlums were trying to escape with the cattle “Consequently, scores of bandits were neutralised and the large rustled cattle were recovered while about 20 abducted victims regained freedom,” the statement read. SPONSORED