A former member of your party, Mr. Olajide Adediran, known as Jandor and members of the Lagos4Lagos Group was received into the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) by the party’s National Chairman, Senator Iyorchia Ayu and some governors in Lagos. What is your view about the event that happened that day? We regard what happened as part of festive activities bordering on entertainment towards end of the year and the New Year. It underscores the unseriousness of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The PDP governors came all the way to Lagos to receive a political non-starter. The same PDP governors that couldn’t stop their colleagues from jumping from their umbrella to the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC), came to Lagos for what I would describe as a circus. They had leaders of PDP who overtime could not even deliver their polling booths boasting that they will win Lagos. They had the likes of the former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, who literally lost deposit during the last elections in Kwara State. For us, what happened last Friday was a null event. They said they have a crowd but we are aware of the fact that they rented crowd. We are aware of the fact that they mobilised crowd from neighbouring states. We are of the fact that PDP states should be on the lookout to make sure that they are not shortchanged. I want to congratulate the gentleman, the young man, Jide Adediran, who is currently excited that it was a very good payday for him. I am sure he must have made massive profits from the contributions of those PDP governors. For us, we are not losing sleep. It is not in their DNA to win anything and that will not change the political situation in the state regarding the next elections. During the rally, the Lagos4Lagos made a strong statement that they are taking over Lagos  for the indigenes. What is your take on that? - Advertisement - I think they should just wake up from this daylight nightmare. They have been saying the same thing since 1999 about Lagos State being controlled by one man, who has remained invincible for them in their imagination. Democracy doesn’t come better than this. If since 1999 our party has been putting forward candidates that Lagosians find acceptable; who have been building on the achievements of previous government since the advent of democracy in 1999, I think Lagos can count itself lucky. All these refrains about elections being rigged bothers on lazy excuses from politicians who don’t know their onions. PDP has nothing to offer this state. Let me just assure you that in the coming elections, despite all the challenges of the recent past, Lagos State still remains on the firm grip of APC. It has become an obsession for the likes of Bode George and his co-travelers that anytime the issue is about Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, they wakes up and come alive. Bode George has been threatening fire and brimstone that should Asiwaju contests the presidency, he would also contest. He has also said that he will go into exile, if Asiwaju becomes the president of the country. We are waiting for him and we will remind him of his statements. He has good options to make any way and he could consider relocating to countries like Afghanistan and maybe, Burkina Faso that just fell under the rule of the military again. Looking at the two opportunities he had as the Governor of Ondo State and as the Chairman of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), did he cover himself in glory? So, people like that should just be onlookers when we talk about politics in the state and country. We also noticed that they have been able to put on their payroll some journalists that at best I can say they are unethical and unprofessional in their approach to the business of journalism. By the time some media set up are literally turned to the mouthpiece of the opposition in the state is not acceptable. What goes on the media stations with the likes of former governorship running mate bringing to the programme where he as the anchor will literally be speaking for the opposition party, PDP, people should really look at themselves. He who comes to equity must come with clean hands. We all recorded the Dasukigate of how he was the partaker when he put his hand in the twist of collecting N50million to take care of the media during the festive seasons. Has he been able to clear the air on that? During the last general elections, he was the PDP deputy governorship candidate to the late Senator, who for the large part of his life was a fugitive which was never cleared. We all saw the glowing tributes he wrote to the senator’s memory when he passed on. I think some people should just learn to respect themselves. Looking at the way Jandor Jide Adediran moved to PDP with his Lagos4Lagos structures; don’t you think his defection is a serious threat to APC? Some politicians are funny people. You assume a whole lot of strength sitting in your comfort zone, home and constituency, and you see a crowd that are largely paid and you assume that to be popular support. Whatever he called a crowd is untested. He has never won any elections. Jandol came from nowhere. Just a few years ago, he was a struggling journalist with LTV. Questions should be asked how he suddenly got money he is busy throwing around, saying he want to contest for governorship. People should learn that there are rules and processes to some things. He is not willing to learn the rope and one can see how he has been making a lot of false errors even in his movement to PDP, putting the cart before the horse. Read Also: ‘Internal democracy remains APC’s biggest problem’ He first declared his intention and later on, he started moving around to meet PDP leaders in the state. A well-grounded politician would have done it the other way round; meeting the leaders first before declaring his intention. But nobody should be surprised, he literally declared PDP dead and he was going there to resurrect the party. I want to congratulate those leaders in PDP that they now have a new leader in Jandol, who is going to give life to their party. One can also see that key leaders of PDP in the state, the Ade Dosunmu, Jimi Agbaje, Babatunde Gbadamosi and the rest of them were not at that event and that speaks volume about the kind of person we are talking about. It is all about picking the governorship ticket of PDP. Mark my words, I believe prophets are still giving prophets for the year; he (Adediran) won’t pick that ticket and he will still move to another party. In the next few months, you won’t hear anything about Lagos4Lagos Movement again. But, there are still some of his followers who are still in APC and these people are likely to work against the ruling party in the coming elections. Is Lagos APC not worried about this? Does he (Adediran) have the political visibility and status of the likes of Senator Musiliu Obanikoro and so many other people who moved from the progressive family in the past; that doesn’t count for anything. People will always clamour even when the clamour is unjustified; it won’t make any difference. APC is well-grounded. We are everywhere, in every nooks and crannies of this state. It won’t make any difference. I am telling you that. We will still have this conversation after the election, after we must have won 100 percent. Some people are of the view that his exit from APC is justifiable in respect to claims of lack of internal democracy and level playing ground in APC. What is your reaction? The young man is largely very confused. He is not in the best position to assess what goes on in our party. His membership of the party couldn’t have been more than a year plus when he has been largely rabblerousing without even taking his time to study the constitution and structure of the party. Since inception, there has always been a level playing field for whoever wants to aspire in our party. Even as we speak now, we find a whole lot of people in various constituencies already aspiring in the party. If they had no hope of getting the ticket on a level playing ground, there would be no need for them to aspire. I think it is song of some people who at one time or the other benefitted from the system in the party. I also want you to know that he was referring to consensus which is acceptable by the constitution of the party. It is either we have an open primary or we agree to a consensus as a process of the emergence of our candidates. Jandol is too green to be able to say authoritatively about the workings in APC.   We’ll handover stable democracy, revamped security,…     PDP okays Kolawole as Ekiti candidate     Ogoni clean-up may take more than ten years to complete,…   What is responsible for the consistency and trust of the people in the ruling party in Lagos State since 1999? Nothing can be farther from the truth; the consistency is a result of long years of performance, passion about the interest of the people, the ability to put in place programmes and policies that will be able to encourage continuity. When we literally succeeds ourselves, that literally means that projects started by previous government will be completed and the people are inherently confident that anyone from the APC family at different levels of government will deliver. That is the basis and of course, it is well-grounded party. You find us everywhere in the market places, almost in every home in the city. Our confidence is not misplaced. People have been wondering where Jide Adediran is getting his funds to finance his aspiration and there are allegations that some APC top chieftains are giving him financial backing. How would you react to this? We also have our suspicion that there could be people within APC sponsoring him. APC is such a wonderful family that the issue that led to the formation somehow continues to be an albatross. A number of strange bed fellow came together to form the party, and this party is supposed to be a progressive and some of them have not really been able to drop their old toga of being retrogressive in their thinking. So, it is not impossible that due to sheer indiscipline on the part of some leaders in the party and maybe due to envy about the leadership of APC in the state that they are really sponsoring the likes of Jandol to rock the boat so to say. But that notwithstanding, we have our suspicion and we know that on the basis of what is on ground, he doesn’t have the resources on his own; that he has sponsors but this will count for nothing. In politics, when someone has sponsors that are baseless who will not want to identify with you, it doesn’t counts for nothing. It is meaningless and that will find out very soon. But I think he has moved a step ahead of his initial sponsors by now sleeping with strangest fellow. Apart from Jandor and his followers who have dumped APC for PDP, there are other aggrieved people within APC. What are the party leaders doing to reconcile with them? It is natural for people to be aggrieved, even in a family and organisation, there are going to be groups and caucuses. It is not impossible for people to be aggrieved because in a political party, you won’t find members that are not ambitious. If you are not, that means you are in a wrong vocation. So, definitely there would be conflicts and disagreement as a result of these ambitions but as a party, we have the internal mechanisms to address the various conflicts when they come up. It also behooves on the members, by the time you agree to be members of a political party, you are really letting go some of your rights, submitting yourselves to constitution, rules and guidelines of the party. As we speak now, we don’t have the opportunity for independent candidacy in an election and that means as a member of the party you must submit yourself to those rules and regulations and respectfully agree to what the mechanism has put in place to resolve conflicts instead of resorting to litigation, which is not good for the party. By and large, despite the bad behavior on the part of some of our members, our doors still remain largely open and it has happened several times, whenever they see the light again or they purge themselves of their ground standing and sheer arrogance, we always welcome them back. Have those internal mechanism you talk about brought about peace in Lagos APC? Yes, because in the various local government, especially since we had the last congresses, the major thing the State chairman-elect, Pastor Cornelius Ojelabi, has been busying doing is calling various parties in various constituencies and local governments to look at their areas of conflicts and by and large, he has made them understand that life and politics is give and take, the important thing is for everybody to have a sense of belonging. I think that is the main bone of contention. So, as long as we are able to be fair to all and sundry, we will have fewer crises. Let me just assure you, in life, crisis and conflicts have always been part of our everyday living. In next few months, APC will have its primaries and ahead of next year’s elections. How do you intend to manage the ambitions of people to prevent implosion in APC? The implosion in APC is the prayer point of PDP and opposition parties. Let me assure you, in Lagos State, we always have acrimonious primaries for a good reason. This is a winning party; there is no basis for PDP to have acrimonious primaries because they won’t win anything. They will struggle to pick candidates for the various offices because it is certain they are going to lose. So, there is nothing in it for them. The APC ticket in this state is like you pick the ticket and your victory is assured. And from time immemorial, despite acrimonious primaries that always come up, we always put our house together before the elections. We always find the meeting point to reach an understanding and the coming election will not be different. I am sure that is bad news for the opposition. APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu few weeks ago visited President Muhammadu Buhari to inform him about his interest for presidency in 2023. Tinubu said he is still consulting on the matter… It is no longer his decision, it is our decision. It can as well be reported that Asiwaju will contest. He won’t say no to the large majority of people clamouring for him to run for the presidency. It is not in his record to say no to the people. Lagos is Asiwaju Tinubu base, and coming out from Lagos, it is expected that he will be fully supported. Are you expecting that kind of support from every other chapters of the party? We are excited about Asiwaju’s aspiration. Let me give a background to it. We all come into politics for one ambition or other, so we should be excited that for once we have someone who is a willing aspirant. He is not being forced on us and he is not been thrown by circumstances to run for the office of the President. So, contrary to what some people would want to pick on, that he said, it is his lifelong ambition, I think that is something we should be happy about. As we speak, we have over 1,800 different groups across the country clamouring for Asiwaju’s candidature; clamouring for him to throw his hat into the ring for the presidential election. Asiwaju is well-grounded and over time he has built a whole of goodwill and bridges across the country and across various ethnic nationalities. Asiwaju overtime has been the man of the people and maybe for a very long time, as he said, he knew this day will come when he will need the various people he has been able to help. People call him different names like kingmaker, godfather, Lion of Bourdillon, which were all creations of the media but he never call himself any of those titles. We just know him as Asiwaju of Lagos, Jagaban Bogu, a former governor of Lagos and one-time Senator; that is what we know him as. So, if at a time like this when we look at issues bothering on us as a nation, bothering on economy where he is well grounded, bothering on security, education, good healthcare, I think it is the right time for us to have a personality like Asiwaju for the presidency. We are very optimistic and it is going to be fun because opposition will have their say but people will have their way.