All Progressives Congress (APC) National Assembly members are protesting their exclusion from the National Convention in the proposed amendment to the party’s constitution. The federal lawmakers described as undemocratic, unjust and illogical for the proposed amendment initiated by the National Caretaker Committee, led by Mai Mala Buni, to exclude them as statutory delegates. The caretaker committee is seeking ratification for the proposed constitutional amendment at the February 26 convention. A member of the House of Representatives, Olajide Jimoh (Lagos Mainland), said the legislators would meet this week to assess the situation. - Advertisement - Jimoh has written to Buni for clarification. He disagreed with the proposed amendment in the letter titled: ‘APC Constitution (Amendment)- Proposed Exclusion of NASS Members,’ he said the amendment violated the 1999 Constitution. Jimoh said: “I read with dismay a proposed plan to amend our party’s constitution in line with Article 30 (iii). This is a welcome development under your leadership. “However, I disagree with the proposed plan to amend 12(i), which has to do with the Convention. “Any attempt to exclude members of National Assembly (NASS), individually or collectively, by error of commission or omission will violate the principles of Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 Constitution as amended. “Federal lawmakers or members of National Assembly belong to federal level or national level. As such, they belong to National Convention and must be partakers at all levels. “Many hands make light work.” Shakespeare said: “Mine honour is my life; both grow in one; take honour from me and my life is done.” Members of NASS, both serving and former, have been part of National Convention, ab initio. Removing them will become too apparent that you don’t need them.   CBN forecloses forex rebate for raw produce exporters     #EndSARS: Federal Govt renews battle with Twitter     Itsekiri youths’ continue siege to Shell facility   “Please note that our party is not the only  registered political Party in Nigeria. Others have members of the National Assembly as part of their  National Convention. “I am convinced that our National Convention will be an excellent opportunity to exchange knowledge and share experiences on the continuous improvement of our party, APC. I hope through your leadership, our party will once again become a party of international standard. “Your Excellency, chairman; there is another Chapter of history to be made in Nigeria come 26th of February, 2022.” Jimoh said APC cannot afford to copy dictatorial styles. He said why constitution amendment is good, he said federal legislators shoukd not be sidelined. Jimoh said: “There are some areas I’m disagreeing to and those areas have to do with the National Assembly members, both former and serving where they are proposing that National Assembly will only be represented by the superior officers. That is not too good for us. “The new proposal only admits former and sitting governors and their deputies, including Secretary to the Federal Government, who was never elected. This is against the norm that allows both former and current National Assembly members. This is not good at all. “People must be allowed to participate in convention. The current proposal is not in tandem with with democratic ethos; it has semblance of military era. Military will come and suspend the constitution. This arrangement appears to be mooting the idea of suspending the parliament as a whole. This should not have been proposed. “Why will there be any proposal to exclude both past and current National Assembly members from participating in the convention? And this is the only grouse I have with this proposal.” He,added: “I completely disagree with the party that they cannot use that on us because it is a ploy to get rid of the legislators. We are representing the national, hence we are called the National Assembly and therefore, we cannot be excluded from the convention. “In other political parties, their members of the National Assembly are part and parcel of the of their convention. Why should our own be different? “I have written a letter to the chairman, Caretaker Committee where I stated that on no account should the members of the National Assembly should be excluded from the convention. And I believe the drafters will have a rethink and ensure that we do something meaningful.” SPONSORED