Climate change now has a direct effect on displacement and migration, JULIANA AGBO writes.  Warmer temperatures over time are changing weather patterns and disrupting the usual balance of nature. This development is pushing the conversation on climate change to a different dimension. Beyond this, is the effect of climate change on the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and refugees. Heavy rains and flooding, products of climate change have further exacerbated the country’s food crisis, adding to the already dire humanitarian situation caused by the decade-long conflict. - Advertisement - Women and girls are the most vulnerable in Nigeria as thousands have been abducted since the crisis began in 2009, at Maiduguri, the epicenter of the crisis. Many more face gender-based violence, including sexual violence, trafficking, and forced survival sex in exchange for food and basic items. Also, the impacts of climate change are numerous and are already hampering return for those who have already been displaced. According to a report on the website of the United Nations, limited natural resources, such as drinking water, are becoming more scarce in many parts of the world hosting refugees. Crops and livestock struggle to survive where conditions become too hot and dry, or too cold and wet, threatening livelihoods. A public affairs analyst, Greg Odogwu, recently argued that refugees, migrants and internally displaced people emanated from some accidental societal mishap and should not be encouraged to remain in these camps perpetually.   The need for urgent intervention   Indeed, National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons IDPs (NCFRMI), has a lot to do despite what they are currently doing to put smiles on the faces of vulnerable Nigerians who are victims of crisis, armed conflicts and insurgencies from different parts of the countries and restore hopes to thousands of refugees. However, the commission saddled with the responsibilities of catering for the welfare of the thousands of individuals taking refuge in these camps under the Federal Commissioner,  Imaan Sulaiman-Ibrahim, said it is  already open to these new realities and is prepared to tackle the same with policies and strategic thinking. When contacted, Sulaiman-Ibrahim said she is actualising  the vision of the commission to becoming a leading, world class humanitarian organisation, with effective and sustainable solutions for all persons of concern. According to her, the commission has adopted the strengthening of internal framework, streamlining of existing data, standardised digitalisation, sustainable and durable solution, and strategic partnerships for resource mobilisation. Part of the innovative thinking is “the NCFRMI project zero hunger initiative, which is aimed at bringing immediate relief to vulnerable persons of concern and their families facing food insecurity,” she said. This, she said, incorporates a whole of society and whole systems approach to providing assistance and support to our persons of concern. She explained that the project is also developed to help streamline and enhance the accessibility, distribution and availability of food and non-food items, thereby eliminating waste and duplication of efforts that was evident in the previous means of distribution. She added that the pilot phase of the project is currently ongoing and is in collaboration with Defence and Police Officers Wives Association (DEPOWA) and Nigerian Army, while the second phase roll out would give well-meaning individuals and organisations the opportunity to feed one person of concern (Each one feeds one). “The initiated Project Skill Up is designed to train selected persons of concern across trades such as carpentry, tiling, welding, tailoring, shoe making, barbing, hair dressing, make up, cooking, web designing, graphics designing, photography and videography. “After the training, persons of concern will be empowered with start-up kits to support their entrepreneurship journey.” The Federal Commissioner also hinted that the commission is partnering with iCreative Revolution Africa Limited, the Sports and Creative Arts industry in the implementation of the training programmes. “These and many other programmes of the commission are efforts geared towards transiting these vulnerable ones from their current state and status to that of independence.”   Aregbesola’s thugs fired gunshots without provocation, say…     Valentine: Group distributes items, awards scholarships to…     Gen. forfeits N10.9b properties to govt   - Advertisement - Therefore, like Odogwu argued, efforts at stabilising them should now be tabled before development players, in order to prepare them structurally, psychologically and spiritually, not only for exiting the camps but for adapting to evolving and far-reaching impacts of climate change and other conflict triggers.   Fund needed    With the revelations from the United Nations stating that a total sum of $1.1bn would be needed in 2022 to undertake humanitarian assistance in the troubled North East Nigeria, this requires full support from the federal government and other development partners according to an expert. While revealing that an estimated 8.4 million people will require humanitarian assistance in the North East in the course of the year, the UN lamented that the total number of those displaced in the 12 years crisis in the geopolitical zone has risen to over 2.2 million. Speaking during the launch of the Nigeria Humanitarian Response Plan 2022 at the UN House in Abuja, the United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator for Nigeria, Matthias Schmale, lamented that the conflict in Borno, Adamawa and Yobe States has evolved into an alarming humanitarian crisis. He said over 2.2 million people are displaced due to the persistent conflict and face daily threats to their health and safety. Schmale said $1.1bn is needed to provide critical aid and services to people who are most affected by the crisis. He added: “For many women, men, boys and girls, the profound impact of conflict in North East Nigeria continues to be felt painfully. “According to our analysis, some 8.4 million people in the three most affected states of Borno, Adamawa and Yobe States are projected to require humanitarian assistance. “They are facing an alarming and large-scale humanitarian and protection crisis. Within these population groups, some of the vulnerable people with specific needs include children, women at risk, people with disabilities, older people, pregnant and lactating women and children under five with high levels of malnutrition who are facing an alarming and large-scale humanitarian and protection crisis.”   Need for migration policy   Sulaiman-Ibrahim, while noting that one of the key challenges of Nigeria is irregular migration,  she said there is a need for a migration policy that works for everybody since it is a country of “migration and destination”. “We are the custodians of the migration policy. It is about to undergo a review. “We have a lot of partners too, international partners like the Swiss Government through the SDC, IOM, especially repatriations and readmission, reintegration, rehabilitation and then resettlement, and also the European Union , and they support us in managing migration challenges and in the effective implementation of our migration policy. “As a country, one of our key challenges is irregular migration, so we are not against migration as a country; we just want to have a migration policy that works for everybody,” she said.   Efforts required    Furthermore, she noted that concerted efforts coupled with a deliberate and conscious financial support are however required for the NCFRMI to fully actualise this vision of putting Nigeria on a global map of best practices in the welfare of refugees and displaced persons. This vision is in line with what President Muhammadu Buhari promised recently to the people of the northeast. He said: “In coming months, you will witness a massive shift from insurgency to peace, stability.” The President had announced that his administration was embarking on a revised approach to addressing the 13-year conflict and insurgency in the region and would not relent in efforts towards a return to peace and normalcy. He said, “At the advent of this administration in 2015, I pledged to Nigerians that I would restore peace in the North-East and return it to the path of development and growth. I remain committed to this promise. “To the people of the Northeast, particularly the children and future of the North-East, we will never forget you and your courage, sacrifice and endurance have been exemplary. “I pledge to you that in the coming months, you will begin to witness a shift away from a protracted insurgency to peace building, stabilisation, and ultimately, development in your respective communities as we embark on a revised approach to addressing these conflicts. It is sufficient to state however that the President and the Migrant and Refugees boss are on the same page. SPONSORED