A group, The 2022 Committee, has emphasised the need for a secure, peaceful and united nation before candidates for political offices emerge. The group’s position was contained in a statement co-signed by its conveners, Kashim Ibrahim Imam and Nduka Obaigbena, the Publisher of ThisDay Newspapers. It said the 2022 Committee consists of 100 leading business, political, civil society and thought leaders, who met in Lagos over the last weekend to map a new consensus for national rebirth. The group also refuted attempts to link it with candidates or political parties for the 2023 elections, describing the move as “an unwarranted and unnecessary distraction.” “Whilst The 2022 Committee is interested in the quality of leadership that will emerge in Nigeria at all levels, candidates are only chosen by political parties and we are not a political party,” the statement clarified. - Advertisement - The group claimed the gathering attracted 14 current Governors and 13 former Governors as well as 3 former Senate Presidents who were not individually identified.   Pressure on Buhari to reject reworked Electoral Bill     Pension complaints and solutions     My Participations: Bisi Akande on himself   The group, working in three sub-committees of National Security, The Economy and Nigeria in Transition, recognised “that there is an urgent need to seek common ground and irreducible minimum actions to stabilise the polity at this critical time of transition.” It was noted that the meetings will continue, while working along with “Federal and State Governments, current and future political leaders of all political persuasions, as well as other eminent patriotic citizens, for the greater good of the Nigerian people.” The statement reads in part: “All the 100 leading lights of the 2022 Committee have the capacity for national leadership; indeed, amongst the very active participants in the work of the Committee are over 7 persons, from 3 or more political parties, who have already publicly declared their aspiration to lead the country but are desirous of working with other patriots for non-partisan greater national goals. “We must have a secure, peaceful and united nation before we can have candidates for political offices. “The Committee believes that what Nigeria needs today is for all patriots to come together to rescue our nation from all political, economic and security threats, and promote the unity of Nigeria. “We call on all patriotic volunteers, who are willing and able, to join this collective effort to stabilise the system so we can all build a new Nigeria we can all be proud of.”