Nigeria international Victor Osimhen has enthused about the possibility of inventing a new dance step should Napoli brave the odds to win the Italian Serie A title. Osimhen who marked his return to Napoli’s starting line-up with a goal at the weekend against Venezia told Repubblica yesterday that he would like to win the Scudetto with Napoli. “If something happens that we win the Scudetto, I’ll invent a new dance on the pitch,” Osimhen reportedly said. “A Victor-victory dance. I’d like to win together: Napoli, Napoli and me. “For the Scudetto I have to be much more than an individual player, so it would give me satisfaction and I think it would be amazing for the city. I would like to win in Naples. It would be amazing for the city.” The 23-year-old with a record 10 goal at the FIFA U-17 level, admitted that Tottenham Hotspur’s Cristian Romero as well as his Napoli’s Senegalese teammate , Kalidou Koulibaly, as the toughest defenders he has ever faced.   2022 Race: Nigeria, Ghana clash fixed for Mar. 27     NNPC subsidiary links scarcity to withdrawal of toxic petrol     Amuneke thanks Nigerians for Eagles job   - Advertisement - “[Cristian] Romero, who is now at Tottenham. He was always faster than me every time we faced each other,” Osimhen admitted when pressed about the toughest defenders he’d faced. “ The other one is Kalidou Koulibaly, he never let me score in training. When Nigeria were eliminated from the Africa Cup of Nations, I supported Senegal.” He further acknowledged the support of Koulibaly since he joined Napoli from Lille of France: “Whenever good can be done with him, there is no need to insist. At Napoli I found very supportive companions. When there is a fundraiser or find money for an initiative he tells me: tell me, ask me, what can I do? He is not alone, Fabian Ruiz and Mertens are also always available.” Osimhen who missed the AFCON after he a nasty against Inter Milan in November , described the experience as hurtful. “I felt like my face had exploded,” he equally told Repubblica. “I touched my face and I couldn’t feel anything. I was even struggling to sleep. However, I’ve worked hard on my recovery with the desire to improve as much as possible. I’ve tried to return as soon as possible without feeling sorry for myself.”