The 2019 Africa Cup of Nations(AFCON)  top scorer  Odion Ighalo said  his non-release for the on-going  2021 AFCON in Cameroon by Saudi Arabian side Al Shabab  partly  contributed  to  city rivals Al Hilal on an 18-month deal. Speaking on a Lagos-based Sports radio, the 32-year-old former Manchester United  striker said he  was so distraught  over his non release  for the  continent’s flagship tournament, adding  the Super Eagles did their best even  without his presence. “I was not really happy because I was not released for the AFCON by Al Shabab,” Ighalo who is currently the leading goal-scorer in the Saudi Pro League season with 12 goals, told Brila FM. “Though it’s my job as a player  but  I was no longer happy because I was not released for the AFCON’ and was actually not speaking to a lot of people in the team . “Of course, I wanted to come for the AFCON but  they stopped me from leaving just about four hours before my departure  because I needed both the exit and entry visa  only to be told they did not get any invitation for my release from the NFF.” - Advertisement - Ighalo would further confirmed that  the Nigeria Football Federation(NFF)   pulled  the strings  for his release  but  it proved abortive due  to  the insistence  and the hanky-panky game  by  management   of Al Shabab .   Osimhen gets new mask tomorrow     NBBF elections produce two factional presidents     National  Stadium: Minister assures on  early  completion  …   “The NFF tried but the club management kept bring up one excuse or the other  because they  don’t want me to come for the AFCON,” he further said. “ The  NFF President Amaju Pinnick even called the Saudi Arabia Football Federation President ; the whole episode gave me migraine and I did not even attend their trainings for two days  because I was not happy. I belief everything happened for a reason and  I think God allowed  that to happened. I’m no longer sad  and I know better days  ahead.” Contrary to wild-held opinions, Ighalo said he had no contractual clause with Al Shabab that would have prevented him from turning out for the Super Eagles: “I did not sign any clause with Al Shabab that I was no longer going to play for the national team and that’s why I don’t listen what many were saying on the social media.” Meanwhile, Ighalo has praised the Super Eagles despite crashing out in the Round of 16 following that 1-0 loss to Tunisia in Garoua penultimate Sunday.  “Though we didn’t progress beyond the group stage, I’ll say the team did well and I’ll score them seven (over 10) because we were the best team after the first round  since won the first three matches and collected the nine maximum points. “ He added: “That was why everybody thought we had the chance of winning the AFCON but this is football and sometimes, it doesn’t go the way you want it. “But we don’t have to look back rather we have to look forward to the next game which is the most important;  what is gone is gone  but you can plan better for the future games  and we just need to keep working hard about the future matches,” he  advised.