Every couple wants to discover the key to a better s3xual relationship. One of the ways to achieve this is to know how to strategically satisfy your s3xual urge and your partner’s s3xual preferences. This week, we are looking at how couples can seductively and erotically build their s3xual energy to the highest peak. The subject will show you the thrilling effect of skin to skin s3xual contact and it will enable married couples to prolong their pleasure. Love-making, otherwise known as penetrative s3x, is an intimate interaction between a married man and his wife, in which both of them can express their innermost s3xual feelings without fear in a totally relaxed and comfortable frame of mind. It is about an intensive physical sensation that also involves an invigorating process of deep discovery and s3xual fulfilment. This involves both parties releasing and sharing s3xual and emotional energy in their most highly charged state. Every married couple deserves to be satisfied s3xually. You can share this in a loving and understanding way by helping one another to discover his or her s3xual energy and also by absolutely tapping into your own fulfilment. The idea that bodies possess a s3xual urge was conceived in ancient times. In fact, the ancient Chinese believed that certain meridian points on the human body help to release untold s3xual urges if the body is correctly positioned, stimulated, and electrified. Ultimately it charges the affected individual and helps him or her to reach a hidden point of release. This makes penetrative s3x or lovemaking joyful and exciting. Note that even if you have been married for many years, you can learn to recharge your s3xual batteries. First, both husband and wife must invest a little time in preparing their minds and bodies for the oncoming pleasure. This helps to elevate the lovemaking to a higher plain. You both must relax by lying down comfortably, breathing in slowly, and making sure that you choose a quiet and comfortable environment. - Advertisement - Then begin to make use of the power of touch. There is nothing that is as electrifying and erotic as the sensation generated by contact with warm hands on a receptive body. It restores confidence and the feeling that you are being admired and needed. Also it stimulates hope. When sick infants are stroked they gain the will to live. A dying patient in a coma has greater chances of recovery if touched. Similarly many marriages have been revived through sensual caresses. The friction caused by your hand when it touches a human body, particularly on the s3xual parts generates heat and energy. Couples must visualize their partner’s bodies as a great s3xual battery and their hands as the primary fueling catalyst. Skillful caresses can stir waves of wonderful feelings. Couples should not underestimate the power of their fingertips because it is capable of creating overwhelming sensation all over the body, but they should make sure they both have uninterrupted privacy. Remember that some caresses are more sensual than others and some parts of the body spark into life quickly under certain conditions. While caressing your partner, please be mindful of his or her needs, then go ahead and use your hands to find the most responsive hotspots areas. The breast is a part of the body that needs to be touched often to stimulate, arouse and increase urges. It must be handled with tenderness because the breast in both the male and female bodies is very sensitive. How to do it? Gently circle and then squeeze the nipple between a well-oiled forefinger and thumb, sliding them up and off it. For extra effect, you can use both hands alternately so that the action and resulting sensation is sustained. This always produces indescribable s3xual urges. Partners can go further to try intimate touching. No sensual massage would be complete without paying proper attention to the most erogenous areas of the body, especially the genitals. To achieve the best, couples should endeavour to embark on long, lingering erotic touches. Wives, in particular, can enjoy high levels of arousal and achieve orgasm through erotic touch. Erotic touch is when a man caresses his wife’s private parts with electrifying fingerprint touches. Erotic touch is when a wife sensual caress her husband’s private part with her lips and eyes, her seductive sweet talk. The quivering culmination of tease and tantalization is when you discover that partner neurons are plugged directly into your spouse’s fingertips. If you are the husband, you must never forget to caress the insides of his wife’s thighs first and ask her which touches she prefers. Then, using both your hands at the same time, you should gently pull on the outer lips of the female s3x organ. Take a step further, manoeuvre the clitoris, and do this carefully and with a touch that is almost as light as a feather. Don’t forget to use plenty of lubrication, run your finger first around the head of the clitoris and then, move it up and down the shaft of the clitoris. On her part, the wife should be aware that when she is caressing her husband’s body, she should avoid any action that may hasten him to achieve orgasm because reaching a climax is not a big deal to him. The problem of developing, maintaining, and satisfying s3xual urges is more on the side of the wife than the husband. But the wife should focus on giving the husband a wonderful time. Make sure you steady his organ by grasping it around the middle with one hand. Then rub the cupped palm of your other hand around the head, as if you are juicing an orange. Slide your cupped hand up over the head of his organ and down the shaft. And before it gets to the base, bring the other hand up to the head once more to repeat the caressing. Above all, endeavour to create an all-round arousal use your hands, lips and the warm pressure of your whole body to electrify your partner’s skin before moving to penetrative s3x. At this level, kissing is inevitable. I mean the sensual and erotic and way of kissing. Kiss can be many different things- a greeting, an expression of love, or an essential part of foreplay and penetrative s3x in general. Since the lips and tongue are the most sensitive parts of the body, gentle tender kissing and deep penetrative kissing alike, can be erotic s3x itself. Please never underestimate the power of kissing in your preparation for s3x, and in your love making it is an urge most effective breaker-forth tool. When you kiss, do it with confidence, kiss with skill. Skillful kissing usually enhances your own emotional state and helps to boost your spouse’s confidence, as well as hype the erotic and exciting level of intimacy. The result is a good s3xual urges and memorable s3xual performance. If you kiss very well it is possible that both of you will not rush into penetrative s3x immediately, but rather slowly work down your partner’s body with kisses and caresses. Remember your gentle strokes and caresses are unbeatable.   Question We want to re-ignite our s3x lives You almost blew me up with your column last Saturday. Indeed, I plan to read it together with my wife as a starting point for re-igniting the fire in our s3x lives which is gradually going down. I will appreciate it if you can be kind enough to send me the concluding part of the article on how to keep one’s s3x life alive so that I can read both parts 1 and 2 with my wife. I look forward to your kind response. Have a great week ahead and may the good Lord bless you.   Answer This is the concluding part and I know you will find it quite useful.   Question My wife craves for s3x I am an avid reader of your column and I am highly fascinated by your mastery and delivery of the subject that most people consider a taboo to be discussed either in public or in their private closets. Your column has contributed in no small measure to the success and stability of many families that were hitherto at the brink of disintegration. I really commend your efforts. I want to know if it is normal for a woman to start craving for s3x in an alarming manner after the age of 40 and what can I do as a husband when I am not always around?     Attaining and maintaining healthy sex life     Couples’ sexuality facts     You can still enjoy your sex life   Answer There is no reason to be alarmed or afraid. It is normal for some women. It shows that you are taking adequate care of your wife. When a married woman at that age craves for s3x, it means she has experienced all round fulfillments. And there is an untold inner joy that finds expression in s3xual relationship with her husband. All I would say is do all you can to make yourself available, and when you are unavoidably absent, try and explain to her. I am sure she would understand and cooperate with you.   Question Is frequent s3x dangerous? I really want to know if too much of s3x is dangerous. I have a girlfriend now that cannot do without having s3x twice in a day – morning and night. I am not used to it. But I love her so much and I don’t want her to feel anyhow. She feels depressed and angry anytime I refuse to have s3x with her.   Answer For those who are still single, s3x should be saved for marriage. You have no business experimenting with s3x if you are still single or unmarried. It is a dangerous ground to tread on. I can assure you that there are many dangers attached to it.   Question How is sit bath method done? I enjoy the way you treat people’s challenges. Please, with reference to your answers, what is KEGEL exercise? How is a sit bath method like? What can be used in the sit bath method?   Answer Please, read our past editions. You will get accurate information   Question My fiancée is always in s3x mood I have I fiancée that I will be getting married. My concern is that she has noticeable hair around her upper lip, and she told me that she secretes excess vagina fluid, easily gets wet (hugs alone can get her wet) and she is always in the mood to have s3x. Do you think that all is well with her? She will be travelling for two years by November and I keep asking her how she will cope without s3x for that long. She is assuring me that she will cope, but I am not convinced.   Answer She needs to see a medical doctor for the hair around her upper lip. There are creams that will easily remove such, when prescribed by the doctor. As for the urges and the secretions, most times, being a single lady could be a predisposing factor. Sometimes it could just be that she is a bit s3xually active and aggressive than normal. Though, it may be possible for her to manage herself while she is away. It may also be challenging as well. Even if you both get married, it does not stop her from being s3xually active. I will advise that she should do all she can to prevent things that will easily arouse her or set her on. Life is not all about s3x. It is also about determination, strong will and being focused.   Question No man has ever discussed marriage with me I am a 28-year-old lady. I have been trying to keep my relationship, but it wouldn’t stand. No man has ever discussed marriage with me. Sometimes, I feel so disappointed. Please, advise me on what to do. My mates have been married with kids. Right now, I have no guy around me. I have been passing through a lot of heart breaks. Please, advise me.   Answer There is nothing greater than God. Please, put it in prayers and God will provide the best for you. SPONSORED