All Progressives Congress (APC) Govenors will meet with President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday to discuss the 2023 general elections timeline released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), The Nation has learnt. A source within the fold of Progressive Governors Forum confided the meeting is necessitated by closeness of the date for the party’s national convention and the INEC timeline for primaries ahead of the 2023 polls. APC national convention is fixed for March 26 by the party’s Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) at the Eagle Square Abuja. INEC Chairman Prof. Mahmood Yakubu on Saturday announced party primaries are to hold April 4 and June 3, 2022. The announcement means the ruling APC effectively has only seven days after the convention for commencement of primaries. The development has created tension within the party with many worried the APC would running against time to meet up with the two important exercises. Secretary of APC Caretaker Committee, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, declined comment on the development when contacted by The Nation.   Ondo PDP mum after bye-election loss in stronghold     Come and join our army, Ukraine appeals to foreigners     Terrorists storm wedding, abduct bride, others in Niger   He said: “I don’t speak for myself, I speak for the Caretaker Committee and I have not been directed to speak on that issue. “The committee is yet to have a position on that, so I am not going to make any comment.” But a source close to th3 Progressive Governors Forum said the leadership of the group will meet with the President to discuss the way forward. “Some of the Governors are expected in town (Abuja) today and tomorrow to discuss the development and the leadership of the forum will be meeting with Baba (President Buhari) latest by Tuesday for further discussion on the way forward. The time is so short, that is why it is the leadership of the forum that will be meeting with the President.” The source added: “The leadership of the Caretaker Committee is equally expected at the meeting. I learnt that the Chairman of CECPC who is a member of the forum is billed to be in the meeting on Tuesday. “Thank God the convention is March 26. Though we don’t have the time but what it means is that the new National Working Committee (NWC) will have to come up with a timetable that will meet the schedule of activities of INEC. “I am sure the governors will be ready to work with the new NWC to produce a timetable that will meet the INEC timeline.”