President Muhammadu Buhari has approved two new political appointments for the Office of the First Lady. A’isha Rimi, a law graduate of the University of Buckingham in England, and Dr. Zabah Muhammad Jawa, were appointed as Senior Special Assistant to the President on Legal Matters, Office of the First Lady and Personal Physician to the First Lady, respectively. The new appointments made it three, following the earlier appointment of former President of the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ) and former member of the House of Representatives, Muhammad Sani Zorro, as Senior Special Assistant to the President on Public Affairs and Strategy, Office of the First Lady. The President had earlier approved the sack of Special Assistant on Domestic and Social Events in the Office of the First Lady, Zainab Kazeem and approved the redeployment of Dr. Mohammed Kamal Abdulrahman, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Health and Development Partners and Personal Physician to the First Lady; Hadi Uba, Special Assistant to the President on Administration; and Wole Aboderin, Special Assistant to the President on Non-Governmental Organisations from the First Lady’s Office to the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF). A statement by Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, said “President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of two more personal aides to the First Lady, Mrs. A’isha Muhammadu Buhari.   BREAKING: Thugs attack Sunday Igboho’s residence, supporters…     I’ll name new Olubadan on Monday, says Makinde     BREAKING: Panic as gunmen kill another 4 policemen in Enugu   - Advertisement - “A’isha Rimi, a law graduate of the University of Buckingham in England is appointed as the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Legal Matters, Office of the First Lady. “A’isha is a resourceful administrative executive and a founding partner at Africa Law Practice, a commercial law firm in Nigeria. “The President has also approved the appointment of Dr. Zabah Muhammad Jawa as Personal Physician to the First Lady. “Dr. Jawa is a Senior Consultant in Nuclear medicine and European Certified in Nuclear Medicine. “He is a Fellow of the College of Radiologists of Nigeria and Fellow of the South African College of Nuclear Physicians,” the statement reads.