AIICO Pension has announced the change of guards at the company. It will now be referred to as FCMB Pensions. It was also gathered that all management staff of AIICO Pension have left the company, including the Managing Director, Eguarekhide Longe. FCMB Pensions has a new Managing Director. It is Christopher Babatunde Bajowa, whose appointment has  been okayed by the National Pension Commission (PenCom). In a statement, FCMB Pensions  stated: “We are pleased to inform you that AIICO Pension Managers has merged with FCMB Pensions Limited, a leading Pension Fund Administrator. Consequently, AIICO Pension will now be referred to as FCMB Pensions, a member of the FCMB Group. “With this merger, we reassure all our valued customers of safety of funds, sustained and competitive return on investment, more service outlets, FCMB Group offering and better customer experience.” - Advertisement - However, FCMB Pensions did not show or name its new board and management. In the majority stake takeover, FCMB Pensions bought 26.1 per cent stake held by other shareholders in AIICO Pensions, thereby making FCMB Pensions a majority shareholder with 60 per cent stake in AIICO Pensions. This is in line with the approval from PenCom, which ordered Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) to raise their minimum share capital base from N1 billion to N5 billion by April 12, 2022. A notification by FCMB Group Plc through a corporate disclosure to the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX) last year affirmed that it had purchased a 60 per cent stake in AIICO Pension Managers. AIICO Insurance also confirmed the announcement with a notification to the NGX and the public that it had sold 33.9 per cent of its shareholding in AIICO Pensions, which added to the 26.1 per cent FCMB bought from other shareholders in the company made FCMB a majority shareholder. This was lower than a 70 per cent stake earlier stated to the NGX. FCMB said: “The acquired stake was reduced from the initial 96.3 per cent stake in our notification to the NGX on June 25, 2020 to comply with the transaction structure approved by regulators.” The company added that the acquisition was to combine the activities of its pension management subsidiary, FCMB Pensions Limited, with that of AIICO Pensions to build a stronger and more resilient business.   Police should remain in CPS, says group     Pension complaints and solutions     222 retirees in Lagos get N1.04b   AIICO added: “In line with the approval from the National Pension Commission, the transaction is subject to a merger of AIICO Pensions and FCMB Pensions. “This is in compliance with the PENCOM’s circular ref: PENCOM/INSP/CIR/SURV/15/03 of September 21, 2015, which states that ‘no individual, group of individuals or company shall have direct or indirect ownership/shareholding of five per cent and above in more than one licensed Pension Fund Operator’. “Therefore, following this sale, AIICO Pensions ceases to be a subsidiary of AIICO Insurance and has now become an indirect subsidiary of FCMB Group Plc.” Meanwhile, the management of AIICO Pension bid their clients farewell in a statement last week. The statement read: “We are pleased to announce that from February 21, 2022 AIICO Pension Managers (AIICO Pension) will officially be integrated into FCMB Pensions Limited (FCMB Pensions) and will begin conducting its business as FCMB Pensions. “We began our journey in February 2005 with our incorporation as a business and announced our entry into the Nigerian pension industry in April 2006, when we were licensed as a Pension Fund Administrator by the PenCom. Our growth over the past 16 years has been predominantly organic relying largely on referrals of our client base. ‘’Over the years we have also attracted high-quality, committed professionals and invested in their training, development and growth. As a result of these efforts, we have experienced significant growth over the past 16 years. This has been in no small way also directly because of the trust you have reposed in us to manage not just your present but more importantly your future. “As we have dutifully mentioned in previous communications, we decided to combine our business with that of FCMB Pensions because we strongly believe that a larger organisation will allow us to provide a wider array of services, more depth in managing your investment portfolio and also ensure that our combined share capital exceeds the National Pension Commission’s newly prescribed minimum share capital requirements for Pension Fund Administrators of N5 billion. It continued: “FCMB Pensions hold true to the same innate values that we do; integrity, customer centricity, diligence and professionalism. As a result of this synergy of values (as an AIICO Pension customer) you will continue to enjoy the excellent service quality you are accustomed to albeit on a larger scale. From February 21, 2022, when we officially become FCMB Pensions, we will be able to provide you many new services and areas of expertise. We look forward to discussing those in more depth with you. However, there are several things we want to point out that will not change: “Your Personal Identification Number (PIN) remains valid. Your personal, contributions and withdrawal records remain intact. We have ensured that you will continue to work with experienced and courteous account officers. Our fee structure will not change. The services we have provided you in the past will continue to be improved and offered by FCMB Pensions. We will be moving some of our offices to FCMB Pensions’ and our contact centre phone numbers and email addresses will continue to be operational for the time being although we anticipate consolidating phone numbers as soon as possible in the near future. “You have always been at the centre of everything we have done over the past 16 years and we did this for YOU.  We salute your fierce dedication to our brand and we look forward to improving same when we make you happy you with our service offerings as FCMB Pensions. We are excited about the future and we are glad to have you with us on this journey,” the company added.