In the run-up to the 2023 elections, all sorts of crazy permutations and endorsements will inundate the polity. The permutations will keep the country entertained. Some permutations may be far-fetched, and endorsements hypocritical, but grumblings will not deter political groups and individuals from sticking out their necks in favour of candidates and political parties. It would not matter whether the endorsers and pundits get it right or not, or whether they fizzle out almost immediately; what will matter is that the press will always be there to give them a hearing. The press gave a hearing last Tuesday to a group of lawmakers who described themselves as Forum of Members of State Houses of Assembly under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the South-South. On Monday, they claimed to have endorsed Kogi State governor Yahaya Bello for the presidency in 2023, arguing that the North Central, where the two-term governor comes from, had been marginalised since 1960. The news was contrived of course, and lest reporters be accused of missing the awful story, they dutifully filed it back to their headquarters. In the story, there was a list of the South-South states involved, to wit, Akwa-Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross River, Delta, Edo and Rivers States, but there was precious little else, not even the names of the conveners, prominent speakers at the forum, and sensible, credible arguments justifying the inane considerations about who was qualified for the presidency. According to a newspaper excerpt of the communiqué said to have been written by the lawmakers, the main plank of their argument is that the next president must come from the North Central. But if the presidency must rotate to the so-called marginalised region, why Mr Bello then? Well, the largely anonymous but clearly unrepresentative regional lawmakers have made their choice. They cannot be bothered by anything else. Did anybody put them up to it? No one is certain. But given the extraordinary manner their pick was announced like a bolt from the blue, it is hard to imagine that their hearts were not influenced. They can’t be so taken by pure mendacity that they would pretend not to know that Mr Bello, a braggart youthful governor, is a chronic underperformer in office. Here is the lawmakers’ justification: “That the APC State Assembly Legislators of the South-South, who were elected by the people of the six states that make up the geo-political zone believe that the best thing for our party as we approach the 2023 general elections is to give room for marginalised zones to produce the next President. Consequently, we appeal to the national leadership of our party, the APC, to zone the Presidency to North Central for fairness and sense of belonging to prevail. We hereby state that we agree to support our colleagues in the North Central to contest for the position of the President of Nigeria in 2023 – which is a position that the zone had hitherto been deprived of since Nigeria became independent in 1960.” Indigenes of the North Central have their grouse against the system, but it is unlikely they will subscribe to anyone categorising them as deprived of political power since 1960; what with Yakubu Gowon, a former general and head of state for about nine years, who hails from the region. What is significant about the South-South lawmakers’ endorsement is not even where the next president should come from, but what qualifies Mr Bello in their estimation. The Kogi governor is in his second term, and has campaigned vigorously. He has brought in influence peddlers from diverse walks of life, including the film industry, sports and the media. Those junkets were of course paid for. Every visit to Lokoja, Kogi State, to endorse Mr Bello never went beyond singing his praise. There was nothing sincere about the praises, their acknowledgement of his youth and vigour, and occasionally their references to his inexistent achievements, some as nebulous and specious as describing him as a guarantor of security. The reality is, however, much different. Mr Bello is regarded in the state as a do-nothing governor who, in his last-gasp years, is preoccupied with two or three legacy projects. He has spent a larger part of his tenure despoiling the state, cruelly mistreating workers, unable and incapable of conceptualising a development paradigm for the state, not to talk of executing it, and on the whole, leaving the state much worse than he met it. Since he never had any leadership quality in him, it is not surprising that he has neither offered nor spoken of one. Those who endorse such a fringe player idling most of the time in Abuja and imagining himself a leader and statesman believe that they have done no harm to anybody. They must be joking.   Ihiala fatal crash: one carnage too many     Teen killers on the prowl! Ritual killings escalate as…     2023: Why I’m better than Atiku, Saraki, others –…   South-South lawmakers, assuming the group that met last Monday in Calabar is real and representative, can of course endorse anyone and any party other than their party, but they owe their electorate the responsibility of making sensible and defensible decisions on whom to support. There is nothing to deter the public from running away with the impression that the lawmakers who settled for a Bello presidency are not a bunch of dummies. Nigerians may be generous with praise and even possess a macabre sense of political humour, but they are not so foolish as not to know when they are being goaded with outright fallacies.  The Senate is reportedly considering a bill sponsored by a Taraba State lawmaker to prescribe punishment for family members proven to have benefited from the proceeds of corruption by a public servant. The spirit behind the bill is of course sound, and undoubtedly many family members have benefited directly or indirectly from the proceeds of corruption perpetrated by someone in public service. There have been records of such family members also punished along with the perpetrator of corruption. The Abdulrasheed Maina pension scandal is an example. So why does the country need a special bill for a common, if not commonplace, crime? It is not clear. It is even less clear, assuming a fresh law can be justified, how effective the law would be when existing laws that appear adequate for such family crimes have managed not to deter anybody. Many laws are in the works all over the country, all designed to tackle mundane specifics. The urge to make crime-specific laws was responsible for inspiring hasty and careless legislations against ritual killing and kidnapping. Notwithstanding specific laws, these two crimes, for instance, have not abated. Obviously, something is amiss. That something is not the law; the problem is enforcement. Nigerian law books in most cases have existing laws to punish many of the crimes now inspiring a plethora of new laws. In short, new or old laws, the problem is enforcement. Until something changes structurally to remake Nigeria, the tendency to repose confidence in new laws to battle old crimes will continue.