All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain Dr. Ibrahim Dauda is jostling for the presidential ticket of the ruling party. EMMANUEL OLADESU highlights the hurdles on the way.  Ibrahim Bello Dauda, a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), has thrown his hat into the ring. Can he get the presidential ticket? How far can he go?  Many contenders may still be warming up. The wheat will be separated from the chaff during the primary. There are hurdles to cross. This includes zoning. The agitation for rotation is being intensified. Or has the ticket been thrown open to all regions? Also, aspirants will be vetted based on the criteria of experience, competence, cult followership, antecedents and past record of service to the party, state and country. Only few will survive these challenges. The 49-year-old politician claims that he was a chieftain of the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), founded by General Muhammadu Buhari in 2009 as a vehicle for the April 2011 elections. In 2014, the party fused with other like-minded platforms to former the APC. - Advertisement - Dauda’s supporters describe him as an ccountant and administrator. He maintains a FACEBOOK presence that proclaims his dedication to “advance the cause of philosophy and critical thinking, leadership and development.” Another FACEBOOK slot has been devoted to the project of “Dr. Ibrahim Bello Dauda El-DABI for President of Nigeria 2023.” Hexis,portrayed as “A highly motivated and passionate professional, who conceived several ideas and made some of them worthwhile projects that have affected the lives of the people, have thrived, and done well in challenging situations as it has undoubtedly brought out the best in his abilities. “As an accountant and an administrator, he specialises in public and corporate administration, management accounting and fiscal management, risk management, project management, development planning, change management and business development. These have sharpened his awareness as well as adherence to standards and quality in project and service delivery. At his best when nurturing ideas, promoting interaction, and transferring experience which has brought out the best in people in a way that positively impacts on lives continuously and permanently.” His supporters say he specialises in public and corporate administration, management accounting and fiscal management, risk management, project management, development planning, change management and business administration. Born on June 3, 1972, Dauda hails from the Kanuri stock of the North-Eastern part of Nigeria. His parents are fromGora Town in Shani Local Government Area of Borno State. He however, spent his entire childhood in his place of birth, Jos, the capital of Plateau. After elementary school at the Roman Catholic Mission (RCM) Primary School, Giring, Jos, Plateau State, he Dauda attended Army Day Secondary School, Chindit Barracks in Zaria, Kaduna State. Later, he obtained the National Diploma (ND) in Financial Studies, followed by the Higher National Diploma (HND) in Accountancy from the Plateau School of Accountancy and Management Studies (PSAMS) Jos, Plateau State. Subsequently, he obtained his Master’s in Project Management (MPM) from the American Academy of Project Management. He was awarded doctorate degree in Business Management at the Cornerstone University in Israel. He also obtained a Professional Diploma in Dynamics of Forensic Graphology, Professional Diploma in Intelligence and Professional Diploma in Criminology and Security Studies from the International Security Organisation (ISO) KLG in Collaboration with the Indian School of Profiling and Graphology and the Indian Institute of Handwriting and the Pan-African Shield College, Kenya. Dauda told reporters: “I know where we are coming from and where we need to go. It is my resolve to do things differently and stand out in the crowd. We must restore the integrity of this nation, respect, dignity and confidence.” In his view, “it is the responsibility of every government to serve the people. We are set to give the people of this country the confidence that if they work hard in legitimate pursuits, the system will encourage and support them to attain the potentials of their abilities.” Dauda is the President of Platinum Vault Group of Companies, parent company of a firm where he sits as Principal Chief Executive Officer, PVG Consult Ltd, a management-consulting firm that he has run since 2017. He has interfaced with various sectors of the economy, especially in the private sector, spanning accounting, auditing, banking, importing, risk management, business start-ups, investments, oil and gas, agriculture, mining, power generation, telecommunications, logistics, construction, and business management. In 2019, he was the National Secretary of the Central Working Committee of the APC Women and Youth Presidential Campaign Team, as well as a member of the Support Groups Directorate of the APC Presidential Campaign Council and Director of Operations to the Buhari Support Organisations (BSO).   ‘Owan Federal Constituency deserves better representation’     2023: Intrigues as PDP govs, presidential aspirants battle…     APC chairmanship: I’ll return power to youths –…   He had previously played a similar role in 2014-2015 as the National Coordinator of the Buhari Support Organisations (BSO). Under Buhari’s old ANPP and CPC, Dauda had served as: Plateau State Coordinator for The Buhari Organisations (TBO) in 2003-2007, Member of the National Media and Publicity Committee (CPC) in 2010, Coordinator of CPC’s Presidential Primaries for Plateau State in 2010, Secretary to the Primaries and Congress Committee for CPC in 2010, and a Member of the National Investigation and Monitoring Committee for CPC in 2010. In addition, he was a member of the National Election Monitoring Committee for CPC in 2011, the State Treasurer for CPC Plateau State in 2011, a member of the National Strategy Committee for CPC in 2010 to 2011, Member of the National Registration and Membership Committee for CPC in 2013, Member of the National Convention Committee for CPC in 2013. After joining APC, he was appointed the National Secretary of the Buhari Support Group Centre in 2014, the same year he became a Member of the Presidential Campaign Council’s Election Monitoring Committee for APC. Between 2010 and 2014, he became the Managing Director of Velscar Integrated Services, heading this consultancy that provided services in project consulting and management of business start-ups. He currently sits as President of the Platinum Vault Group Of Companies, which he started in 2015. As its head and Chief Executive Officer, Dauda has turned the firm into an octopus that has blossomed into 10 companies with tentacles in oil and gas, agriculture, mining, power generation, telecommunications, logistics, construction, business, and management consulting. As Chairperson of the board, he has four vice presidents under him for: Corporate Services, Finance, Business Development and Operations. Reflecting on the assignment, he said: “I am directly in charge of the Project and Risk Management Department of the group. Among the current project this unit is managing is the biometric registration of 12 million rice farmers in Nigeria under the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN). “This is a wide project covering the registration of all members according to the cooperatives they belong to; mapping of their farms; creation of data base management system for the association; provision of seedlings; disbursement of funding; monitoring of performance of each farmer; and monitoring of crop yield and harvest.” A philanthropist, the APC strongman runs the Almajirai Empowerment Foundation (AEF) that he co-founded in 2014 for the purpose of the advancement and empowerment of Almajiri and less-privileged children. Hailing from the North East geopolitical zone that has become the theatre of insecurity, insurgency, and terrorism, Dauda has deep sentiments about the damage the country has suffered. He is also concerned that sectional interests tend to pull the country in different directions, threatening the bond of national unity. He stressed:  “Today, the bond of the unity of the country is under intense strain. Strident agitations of all kinds from several quarters suggest the balkanisation of the country along ethnic lines. “Hitherto silent fault lines have developed into frightening gulfs, sowing suspicion and deep distrust, shaking the foundations of our unity, and threatening the peace and security of our dear country. “Insecurity and vices of frightening shapes and dimensions assail the land. Patriotic Nigerians believe that the nation is not moving in the right direction. This country has never been as divided as it is now. All these are manifestations of accumulated years of negative sentiments, emotions, selfish interest and of hollow commitment to the principles of patriotism.” To halt these divisive tendencies, Dauda said the country needs him to bring healing to the land and quell the different agitations. He added: “My entrance into the race as an aspirant for the highest political office of our land the PRESIDENT marks a new dawn for Nigeria, and the resuscitation of hope for the redemption of Nigeria. “It has pleased God Almighty to give Nigeria a fresh chance at getting it right, the country having been unfortunately dragged through the path of underwhelming performance. I will serve as the divinely-inspired vehicle to rescue Nigeria.”