Social media commentator, Daniel Regha has expressed doubt over the disbursement of N250m Davido’s donation to orphanages across the country. On February 15, the award-winning singer announced that the five-man committee, which was set up in November 2021 to collate names and information of documented and verified orphanages, has completed the disbursement of funds to the orphanages. In a series of tweets, Davido released the full names and locations of the 292 orphanages that benefitted from the disbursement. The 29-year-old expressed gratitude to family, friends, fans and associates for the support while maintaining his famous ‘always remember, we rise by lifting others.’ Days after the “If’ singer’s announcement that the funds have been disbursed, Regha took to his Twitter page to question him. The controversial Twitter user argued it’s unbelievable to accept Davido’s claim since a large number of the beneficiaries haven’t acknowledged him.   Dorcas Shola-Fapson takes dad on first Dubai trip for 60th…     NDLEA: Naira Marley reacts to Zinoleesky, Mohbad’s arrest     Ex-BBNaija’s Lucy lambasts those doubting her age   “Davido says the N250m “has been disbursed to 292 orphanages” but I find this hard to believe cos almost 95% of the beneficiaries are yet to acknowledge him,” Regha tweeted. “Now, it’s either the money wasn’t paid out or the beneficiaries are ungrateful. There’s no proof the money was disbursed”, he added. On November 17, 2021, Davido jokingly began a fundraiser after he challenged his colleagues in a video to contribute N1m each to enable him clear his Rolls Royce, at the Lagos ports. The artiste said he did not expect the massive response he received from Nigerians, who sent him not just millions but also little tokens to express their love and support for him. Davido explained that he received a total of N200million for the challenge, and decided to a personal donation of N50million, bringing the total amount to N250million, to be shared among orphanages across the country.