Youths of Ifite Nteje community in Oyi Local Government Area of Anambra State have raised the alarm over alleged extra- judicial killing, police brutality and arson in the area. The youths called on the state government to come to their rescue by constituting a judicial panel of inquiry to investigate the matter. Addressing reporters on behalf of the youths, a legal practitioner, Martins Okechukwu accused an influential politician in the community and his aide of being behind the crisis. He alleged the individuals were arming youths involved in the sale of communal land and renting a crowd to scuttle police investigation. He said, “They were demanding from various quarters of the community about 600 plots of land. - Advertisement - “Some youths opposed to the selling of their ancestral land were detained at police custody in Abuja known as Abattoir and many died in the process as a result of torture and brutality.   Tension in Imo community over dethronement of monarch     Ex- IGP Okiro backs Southeast over presidency agitation     Ugwuanyi is in charge of Enugu State affairs, says…   “The Inspector-General of Police had directed the State Commissioner of Police to investigate the matter and in the process, some of their loyalists were arrested with firearms.” Also speaking, Mr. Lazarus Aniefuna said he has been in exile, while his family had been suffering after two of his houses were razed down three months ago. He called on the government to restore sanity in the community by deploying law enforcement agents to the area. Reacting, President-caretaker Committee of Nteje Town Union, Chief Beneth Chinweze said the community was in disarray due to police intimidation, regretting that efforts to draw the attention of the Zone 13 Police in the area had been futile. He also alleged that charges of murder and illegal possessive of firearms were levied against innocent people to ensure they were detained without bail. When contacted, Police spokesperson, Ikenga Tochukwu said he was yet to receive any information on the matter.