Taofeek Babalola in Yaounde President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Amaju Pinnick has said that the federation has not made a final decision on the head coach of the Super Eagles. Amaju stated this in an interview with NationSport on Sunday at the Hilton Hotel Yaounde, Cameroon against the backdrop of  speculations that the federation had settled for the NFF Technical Director Augustine Eguavoen and ex- international, Emmanuel Amuneke to lead the team. Eguavoen served as the team’s  interim coach following the exit of the former handler Gernot Rohr and led the team to  the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon.  Before Eguavoen appointment, NFF had announced Portuguese coach Jose Peseiro as the head coach to take over the team after the AFCON. - Advertisement - But since the Super Eagles AFCON exit, the team is yet to have a substantive head coach  with words rife that the NFF might offered Eguavoen the job on a permanent basis. But responding to a question, Amaju said the federation are working hand-in-hand with the Sports Ministry to make a best decision for the team.   Fury backs Wilder to knock out Joshua     Sporting Lagos  FC  excites  Akinwunmi     Igali upbeat over renovation of Samson Siasia Stadium   He said:  “At moment, we are still harmonize with ourselves; the NFF and the sports ministry. The Technical Committee had their meeting yesterday (Saturday) and they will submitted their report. “ We will look at it and table it at the executive committee by tomorrow (today) and come out with a clear direction on where we are heading to. He added: “I have heard and seen a lot of things in the media. What we need to do is just to inject some kind of technical sagacity into that team. I believe once that is done, we should be able to be done and dusted and that is exactly what we are trying to do.” The NFF boss also confirmed that the Portuguese coach has not signed a contract with the federation. “The good thing is that we have not officially signed with Peseiro but I am still in talk with him. He is somebody that is very eager, and if you look at Portugal, it is the country that is blessed with good coaches. “ Cameroon coach is a Portuguese, Egyptian coach, Carlos Quiroz is a Portuguese. The truth is, we will look at the recommendation of the technical committee: I have never worked alone; we allow our committee to function and once they submit their report, the whole world would know our next direction,” Amaju noted.