Determined to boost treatment outcomes and increase the survival rate of cancer patients in the country, MeCure Healthcare Limited has unveiled the first comprehensive cancer centre with Positron Emission Tomography and Computed Tomography (PET/CT) in Lagos State. It is said to be the first of its kind in Nigeria and West Africa. With PET/CT, which is a combination of PET and CT scan, treatment outcomes will be enhanced and survival rate will be increased as the machine can help to detect cancer cells even before they manifest as cancer in the body. It is a nuclear medicine technique that combines, in a single gantry, a positron emission tomography scanner and an x-ray computed tomography scanner, to acquire sequential images from both devices in the same session, which are combined into a single superposed image. While stressing the importance of early diagnosis of cancer, the chairman of MeCure, Mr Samir Udani, said it was unfortunate that many cancer cases in Nigeria are often detected at late stages, resulting in huge harvest of deaths yearly. He spoke during this year’s World Cancer Day event organised by the company in Lagos, urging oncologists to treat cancer scientifically in order to increase the survival rate and reduce mortality from the disease. Speaking during a media tour of the new facility, Udani tasked physicians to change the narrative in the treatment of cancer through the support science provides in treating cancer. Stressing that the world is changing fast with technologies changing as well, he said caregivers need the support of the third eyes, which PET-CT gives to the physicians so that cancer can be scientifically treated on time. With the PET-CT machine project, valued at about $40 million, MeCure boss said the dynamics of the equipment is based on radiopharmaceutical or radiotracers injected in the patient’s body. Udani lamented that there are about 125,000 new cases of cancer in Nigeria yearly. “It is sad that most of these cases are detected at late stages. The PET/CT increases survival rate of patients, in that, with the radioactive tracer drug used for PET scan and non-ionizing drugs used for CT scan, injected into the patient, we can accurately detect where the cancer is, thereby helping the doctor to decide the best treatment option for the patient. - Advertisement - “PET uses small amounts of radioactive materials called radiotracers or radiopharmaceuticals, a special substance and a computer to evaluate organ and tissue functions. These radiopharmaceuticals cannot be imported because in two hours it loses half of its potency. Without these drugs, PET-CT is not possible.   Rotary Club provides sanitary, hygiene kits to 300 school…     NiBUCAA seeks more media support in HIV eradication effort     20 medical diagnostic centres closed in Nasarawa   “During the cause of treatment, the PET/CT can help to detect if the treatment being given to the patient is working or not. Six months after the treatment, the machine can help to detect if the cancer has been completely treated or if there are some cancerous cells still remaining in the body,” he explained. Udani regretted that despite the importance of the PET-CT machine, Nigeria is just talking of the first in West Africa; while Egypt, also an African country, has 60. He explained that the PET-CT ensures accuracy in diagnosing cancer, which includes the location, size and shape and the fact that guides managing physicians on proper treatment plans for their patients. Noting that cancer is a social problem and a burden on the nation’s economy, he expressed hope that in the next five years, MeCure will be able to have 10 PET-CT machines in Nigeria. He said with N495,000, a patient can access treatment with a PET-CT machine in MeCure; unlike in the United States where the cost is as high as $3,500, and in Kenya, $800. Udani said the company is working towards crashing the cost of cancer treatment, especially with PET-CT to as low as N50, 000. While throwing more light on the workings of PET-CT, a consultant radiologist at MeCure, Dr Durojaiye Adeuja, described the new machine as a landmark achievement for Nigeria, as it improves the diagnostic quality of managing all cancers. “In our clime, we found that breast, colon, prostate and cervical cancers are on the rise. Patients come to the hospital, they get detected, get surgery and go for radiotherapy or chemotherapy. These cases need to be followed up, but we have issues following them up because we usually follow them up with CT or MRI, but PET-CT has more advantage because it doubles the diagnostic quality with a combination of PET and CT as a whole. “So if you are infusing both, PET itself helps to identify functionality while the CT identifies the morphology, the structure as it were.  If you now combine both, there is an advantage because you are able to pick what is current, what is normal; you are able to pick what is residual. You are able to pick what is reoccurring, you are able to pick what is progressing or what is actually regressing or remission.  Essentially, it is like you are using two parameters to evaluate a single variable, which means you are improving the specificity of your diagnosis and PET also increases the sensitivity of the diagnosis.” The Chief Strategist at MeCure, Dr Kunle Megbuwawon, said the company has set up crowdfunding for PET/CT to help those who are unable to get the required funding to access the facility. “We plan to work with non-governmental organisations that are funding the treatment of cancer patients. In the next five years, we plan to have 10 additional PET/CT machines across Nigeria. By then, the cost of running the scan would have reduced and the service would be more accessible to Nigerians,” he said. SPONSORED