Some relatives and kinsmen of Super Falcons and FC Barcelona forward, Asisat Oshoala, have expressed worries about a depressive post she shared on Twitter on Thursday. In the now-deleted tweet, Oshoala said she was “tired of trying”. “Life is just unfair…. tired of trying,” the Barcelona striker tweeted. Although she deleted the tweet a few minutes later, it was not before many people had taken notice. The tweet came as a surprise to many because Oshoala, who lost her mother last year and recovered from a serious injury, has enjoyed good form in the current season. With six goals in her last four games for the Spanish giants, she is the highest goal scorer in the La Liga female league currently. Thus, most commentators on the now-deleted tweet expressed concerns. - Advertisement - Last Wednesday, she made history for Barcelona Femeni after reaching a landmark 100 appearances for the Spanish giants and scoring twice in their 9-1 demolition of Real Sociedad at the San Sebastian. Club sources however said the Super Falcons’ goal poacher developed a fresh hamstring injury. There are also talks about Oshoala possibly being depressed.   Outrage as Kenyan teenager accused of stealing radio is…     Osinbajo opens Southern Ijaw link bridge in Bayelsa 60 years…     Buhari returns to Abuja after EU-AU summit in Belgium   Relatives and kinsmen of the Ikorodu, Lagos State born footballer have been offering their support and sympathising with her while urging her handlers and other concerned persons and authorities to ensure she is adequately attended to during this crucial stage in her life. Some even urged the player to briefly return home to Nigeria if need be. Expressing worries on a social media platform, @Ahmed Ayoola Oshoala posted: “We pray for our sister. We are worried about her following that very disturbing post by her last Thursday. “I hope those handling her will live up to expectations and ensure all she needs to be fine are done. Depression is not a good thing and we are praying for her.” Another post from @Shade Erogbogbo on another social media platform, Ikorodu Arise, said: “This lady needs attention. This is not the first time she will be posting something like this. “Ikorodu elders should reach out to her through those who are with her so as to know what the problem is. “She is one of the glories of Ikoroduland and we must not watch her like this.” Calling on the people of Ikorodu to rally round the footballer and ensure she does not go down with depression, @fendyajisebutu posted: “Oshoala is our pride in Ikorodu. This discussion about her post is not enough. Our elites must take steps towards assisting her where necessary. We must not wait until things get out of hand before lamenting.” The Nation recalled that a similarly depressive post popped up on the player’s verified Instagram handle in 2015. “I’m tired of life, I want to leave already,” the tweet read back then. But the footballer later claimed that her account was hacked into and she had no suicide thought of any sort at the time. SPONSORED