Where is Tony Aghene? This is the question on the lips of family members, friends and associates of the 58-year-old building contractor, who has disappeared without a trace since he left home for a church programme on Monday, January 10. Aghene, a native of Fobe in Owan West Local Government Area of Edo State, had left his home in Gasline area of Ijoko, Ogun State in his church garment and had told a neighbour he rode in the same passenger bus with that he was going to attend a programme at a branch of the Celestial Church of Christ in Ogba area of Lagos where he worships but has since not returned home. His wife, Bridget, an educationist, said her husband told her that he would return home after the programme, adding that all the efforts made to trace his whereabouts had been futile. “He said he was going to a church programme at Ogba when he left our home at Gasline area on Ijoko Road, Ogun State. He left around 5pm. - Advertisement - “He had actually gone to our church same Monday morning to pick some items he forgot there on Sunday January 9,” Bridget said. Obviously exasperated when her husband didn’t return home on time and could not be reached anymore on his mobile phone, Bridget said she became worried when she was told by one of her husband’s sisters, who was at the church for special prayers, that her husband was not in the church. She said: When he didn’t return home on that day, I became worried and tried to reach him on his mobile phone but his line was switched off. “I placed a call to one of his sisters who was in the church for special prayers and she told me that she hadn’t seen my husband, which means that he never got to the church. “Since then, we have not seen him or known his whereabouts. His mobile phone is switched off. He went out in his white garment and he is the youth leader in his church. “Before he left home, he even allocated tasks to some of his workers at a site where he was executing a building project. “He was to go to the site the next day, according to what he told some of his workers on the phone.   Woman jailed six years for cocaine trafficking     NYSC DG laments dilapidated camp facilities     EPL: Tottenham beat Man City 3 – 2   “When we called his workers, they also said that he did not come to the site on the day he left home or thereafter, and his whereabouts remain a puzzle as we speak.” reported the matter to the Sango Police Division in Ogun State while the authorities of their church had also reported his disappearance at the Area G Police Command in Ogba, Lagos. “We have reported the matter at Sango Police Station in Ogun State while his church reported the matter at Area G Police Command in Ogba, Lagos State.” She lamented that the family has been in anguish over her husband’s whereabouts, saying: “The family is distraught and anguished since he left home and did not return. Everyone is troubled. I am much agonised because he is not only my husband but also a reliable partner.” The Nation learnt that aside being a professional builder, Aghene is a highly principled man and a dedicated church worker with special interest in youth development. A family friend, who asked not to be named, said Aghene has helped a lot of youths to achieve their educational goals through his philanthropic gestures. “He is a diligent and principled professional and church worker who has helped countless young persons in Celestial Church of Christ. “Many youths have enjoyed and are still on his scholarship in several institutions of higher learning. It is sad that his whereabouts are unknown. “Without prejudice to the outcome of police investigation, I don’t think that his disappearance has anything to do with kidnapping. “If he was abducted, his abductors would have contacted his family to demand ransom. “Hence, his whereabouts remains a mystery even for law enforcement agents.” It was learnt that a public service announcement sponsored by Aghene’s church members is currently being aired on some popular radio stations in Lagos to alert the public to his disappearance and possibly get information on his whereabouts. A close associate of Aghene, who spoke in confidence, said his church members are playing a significant role in ensuring that “Aghene’s whereabouts are unravelled before long. “In addition to the radio announcement, the church is fervently praying to God to make his whereabouts known so he can reunite with his family and brethren.” SPONSORED