As I was growing up, what baffled me was the apparent, debilitating and abject poverty of my parents … throughout his working life, my father climbed an average of seventy to eighty palm trees twice daily. My mother hawked and sold the wine my father could procure daily … But despite their hard work and diligence, they never had any respite from poverty. They endured this poverty till death.” -Bisi Akande on his parental background in My Participations, An Autobiography, page 37. The above quote from Chief Bisi Akande’s book is one of several statements others might have chosen to omit in their own autobiography. Similarly, Akande narrated how he was upbraided for a bureaucratic error by the State Executive Council, when he was the Secretary to the State Government, for initiating a memo that should have originated from the Ministry of Education (page 147). On yet another occasion, he told us, “I incurred a shortage of £1:5/- … by some duplicated entries under pressure from customers”, while acting for the cashier, who was on leave, while he was the Divisional Accountant (page 85). These are just a few of many examples of self-reporting in the book. These examples demonstrate Akande’s truthfulness even to the point of self deprecation, while offering a taste of what he revealed about himself – his hometown of Ila-Orangun, his upbringing and education, his professional career, and his excursion into politics. If he revealed this much about himself, one can understand why he held nothing back about others. Reviewers who ignored these essential biographical details missed the insights into the making of the man that Akande eventually became. Akande grew up in Ila-Orangun, a town deeply rooted in Yoruba history, which suffered greatly from the Fulani-led coup that toppled Afonja in Ilorin and the upheavals that attended the subsequent collapse of the Oyo Empire in the 19th century. Today’s Ila-Orangun was resettled by returning refugees from the Yoruba wars, after losing much of Igbominaland to the Ilorin Emirate, now in Kwara State. This displacement and resettlement explain why many Ila-Orangun residents today have one ancestor or the other from other parts of Yorubaland. It was against this background that Akande charted the development of Ila-Orangun, his own ancestry, and his own growth as a youth, pupil, teacher, accountant, Councillor, Constituent Assembly member, and politician-SSG, Deputy Governor, Governor, and Chairman of 4 progressive political parties. - Advertisement - Akande’s ancestors “were parts of these general displacements and movements occasioned by the years of wars in the Yoruba country” (page 39). Indeed, Akande’s great grandfather was an Ila military commander during the Yoruba wars (page 50). Akande’s encounter with the warrior’s military outfit and fighting arsenal in his grandfather’s house made a lasting impression on him. When he was told that the relics were being kept there as his inheritance, the impression was created that “that I was likely going to end up as a warrior. All this had effect on me. As a young boy, I was foolhardily bold”.   Is Putin ready to defuse Ukraine crisis?     South’s governors resolute on power shift, says Akeredolu     Senate okays six additional Nigerian Law School campuses   Anyone who has read through My Participations would know that the boldness has persisted. He never shied away from trouble in his youth and confronted elders as appropriate: In 1978, when the trio of older politicians – Chiefs Akinfosile, Onitiri, and Coker – tried to woo him away from Chief Awolowo, Akande retorted: “What did Awolowo do wrong in politics that any of you had not done worse (page 6)?” Furthermore, when he was caught sleeping at work while still learning the ropes as a worker for British Petroleum, he boldly asserted that he slept, arguing that the job of sitting down to understudy someone else in a comfortable corporate environment was vastly different from the setting of his previous standing job as a school teacher. The management must keep him busy, if they did not want him to sleep off! (page 83). Moreover, when Chief Olusegun Obasanjo sought to shift the blame for Bola Ige’s murder, Akande boldly told the sitting President: “You must be out of your mind” (page 350). Akande’s parents were offsprings of returning refugees of the wars. Although both parents were born into wealth by local standards, Akande’s father chose two different paths of his own: First, he took to palm wine tapping, instead of farming like his own father (that is, Akande’s grandfather). Second, Akande’s father chose to forsake his own father’s traditional religion by adopting Islam. Thus, young Akande grew up fully exposed to traditional religion, embraced by his paternal and maternal grandparents with whom he lived, and to Islam, which his parents had adopted. The encounter with Christianity would compound the situation when he eventually enrolled in colonial and missionary schools and became a teacher in the latter. As a youth, he freely was going in and out of mosques and churches. This experience sowed the seed of Akande’s religious tolerance. Young Akande could have become a farmer or a palm wine tapper but for the intervention of a Railway Station Master whom his father respected. Later, when he went to Idanre to complete his primary education, he was lured into being a Mechanic, but he was redirected to school by concerned relatives, who conspired with the Master Mechanic to ask the new apprentice to produce a primary school leaving certificate. After a short stint as a pupil teacher in Idanre, he went to a Teacher Training College to become a certified teacher. He enrolled in a correspondence college, while still in training and eventually became an accountant. He rose through the ranks to become an executive in British Petroleum. How he joined BP and his experiences with the company are a lesson for today’s job-seeking youths. It was in the Teacher Training College that Akande’s leadership training actually took off as the school’s Health Prefect, whose duty it was to determine the suitability of the kitchen’s food for consumption. While working for BP, he joined the Ila Student Union in Lagos in his effort to contribute to the development of his hometown. He subsequently became a Councillor, where he distinguished himself, and other political appointments would follow. What is rather distinctive about Akande’s political participations is the recognition accorded him by his people and other politicians beyond his state. Rather than go all the way out to seek office, he was always selected for office or invited to run for one. His role in the offices he occupied and the lessons to learn from his experiences will be the subject of the next contribution.