THE Nigeria Union of Teachers has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to assent to the bill on the new retirement age for teachers. The national teaching body also appealed to the federal government to pay the arrears of the N30,000 minimum wage and urged state governments to implement the new wage. The union asked the president to implement all the welfare packages approved for Nigerian teachers. The Federal Government during the 2020 World Teachers Day at the Eagle Square, Abuja, had announced new welfare packages for teachers some of which included the introduction of a new retirement age for teachers, new salary scale among others. The government extended teachers’ retirement age to 65 years and their duration of service from 35 to 40 years. - Advertisement - The President had also during the 2021 World Teachers Day reiterated his stand on the promise of the new benefit packages. Buhari also promised to extend the packages to student -teachers in universities and federal colleges of education.   Buhari orders establishment of committee of youths on…     Ekiti 2022: Bamidele backtracks on threat to challenge APC…     Wike sends list of anti-illegal refinery taskforce to DSS   The Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajiuba, in December 2021, added that teachers would begin to enjoy a new salary scale by the end of January 2022. President of NUT, Dr Nasir Idris said the union is engaging state governments on the issues of N30,000  minimum wage and the consequential adjustments. He said: “We have filed a Trade Dispute with the Registrar of Trade Unions against some state governments who are unwilling to implement the same. “The union had reached the President on the issue of 65 years retirement age for the teachers of Nigeria, and he had made an Executive declaration during the 2021 World Teachers Day. “Fortunately, our members at the federal level have started to enjoy it. It is gradually getting implemented in some states too. However, the leadership of NUT has sponsored a bill in the National Assembly on the Teachers Retirement at 65 years of age or 40 years of service. The bill is currently awaiting presidential assent. “It is our expectation that the Teachers Professional Salary Structure will come into effect this year, going by the promise of the Federal Government during the 2021 World Teachers Day. “Our great Union has resolved among others to pursue the removal of the ceiling placed on primary school teachers in some states, where Primary School teachers cannot progress beyond Salary Grade Level 14.”