Three months after their election, states chairmen of the All Progressives Congress (APC) inaugurated in Abuja yesterday. The inauguration was performed in Abuja by the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) was part of activities ahead of the party’s February 26 National Convention. Yesterday’s inauguration followed the consideration and adoption of the reports of the congresses from 34 states and Federal Capital Territory (FCT) by the CECPC. The chairmen from Kano and Sokoto states were not inaugurated due to some irreconcilable differences over the October 2021 congress. The inauguration followed the submission of a notification letter of intention to conduct its convention by the party to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). - Advertisement - This complied with Section 85 of the Electoral Act 2010 which mandates political parties to notify the Electoral body 21 days to a convention, congress or conference. Buni, who doubles of Yobe State governor, was represented by CECPC Secretary Senator John James Akpanudoedehe. Addressing the chairmen, Akpanudoedehe said: “I have been asked to come and issue you with a certificate of returns as the duly elected chairmen of your states.” The chairmen, who were presented with certificates, are: Dr. Kingsley Ononogbu (Abia); Alhhaji Ibrahim Bilal (Adamawa); Mr. Augustine Enefiok Ekanem (Akwa Ibom); Basil Ejike (Anambra); Alhaji Babayo Aliyu Misau (Bauchi); Dr. Dennis Otiotio (Bayelsa); Mr. Augustine Agada (Benue); Ali Bukar Dalori (Borno) and Mr. Alphonsus Orgar Eba (Cross River).   Buhari rebuffs lobby to shift APC convention date     Zulum warns on ISWAP threat to Nigeria     Shonekan: Marina roads closed   Others are: Elder Omeni Sabotie (Delta); Stanley Okoro Emegha (Ebonyi); Col (Rtd) David Imuse (Edo); Omotosho Paul Ayodele (Ekiti); Chief Ogochukwu Agballah (Enugu); Nitte K Amangal (Gombe); Dr. Macdonald Ebere (Imo); Aminu Sani Gumel (Jigawa); Air Commodore Emmanuel Jekada (Kaduna); Alhaji Muhammed Sani (Katsina); Alhaji Abubakar Muhammed Kana (Kebbi) and Abdullahi Bello (Kogi). The others are: Prince Sunday Adeniran Fagbemi (Kwara); Cornelius Ojelabi (Lagos); Mr. John D Mamman (Nasarawa); Haliru Zakari Jikantoro (Niger); Chief Yemi Sanusi (Ogun); Ade Adetimehin (Ondo); Prince Adegboyega Famodun (Osun); Isaac Omodewu (Oyo); Rufus Bature (Plateau); Chief Emeka Bekee (Rivers); Ibrahim Tukur El-Sudi (Taraba); Alhaji Muhammed A. Gadaka (Yobe); Alhaji Tukur Umar Danfulani (Zamfara) and Alhaji Abdulmalik Usman (FCT). The Nation observed that all the inaugurated chairmen were products of the congresses monitored by party officials deployed from Abuja. Those who emerged from parallel congresses conducted by some members loyal to chieftains of the party were not recongnised. Some of such chieftains include: Interior Affairs Minister Rauf Aregbesola (Osun); Minister of State for Labour and Productivity Festus Keyamo (Delta), Minister of Information, Culture and Tourism Lai Mohammed (Kwara) and Prince Dayo Adeyeye (Ekiti), among others. Speaking on behalf of his colleagues, Borno chairman,  who doubles as the Staste Chairmen Forum Chairman, Alhaji Bukar Dalori, expressed gratitude to the Buni-led National Caretaker Committee. He said: “Buni has led APC with an unimpeachable commitment to move the party forward and carrying all members and leaders along. “In the last few months, we have witnessed leadership finesse in the manner party affairs are conducted. There is no doubt that Your Excellency has brought your experience to bear in piloting the affairs of our great party. “Despite the Covid-19 pandemic and the limitations associated with it, your practical ingenuity to still mobilize people to join the party will go down memory lane as being uncharacteristically magnificent. We remember vividly how all the Committees, especially the Women and Youths Mobilisation Committee led by Governor Yahaya Bello deployed the media to market our party to millions of Nigerians. APC is indeed blessed with great leaders. “On behalf of my colleagues, we wish to pledge our unalloyed loyalty to the leadership of Your Excellency and to assure you that we are all behind you as your achievements have shown your sterling qualities.”