At 10 tonnes per hectare average cassava yield, compared with Asian countries’more than 20 tonnes per hectare, Nigeria’s cassava average yield is still considered low. However, Nigeria’s seed industry may have entered a new chapter that promises a robust domestic cassava seed sector. Specifically, stakeholders in the agric sector have moved to address the situation through support for improved cassava varieties. They hope that this will, ultimately, help farmers deliver increased cassava yields and boost profitability. DANIEL ESSIET reports. Nigeria’s seed industry appears set for a major turnaround that will significantly impact productivity in the agric sector. Apparently worried that quality seed availability to farmers remained one of the top challenges to increased productivity and profitability, and determined to change the narrative, stakeholders in the agric sector have turned their attention to addressing the situation through support for improved seed varieties, starting with cassava. Their choice of cassava to kick-start what promises to add immense value to the nation’s seed industry is understandable. For one, cassava is a main staple crop in sub-Saharan Africa, including Nigeria. It offers the cheapest source of calories and is an important cash crop for rural households. Unfortunately, however, Nigeria’s cassava average yield remained at 10 tonnes per hectare, compared with Asia countries, for instance, that have achieved yields of more than 20 tonnes per hectare. Perhaps, to underscore the crisis in Nigeria’s seed industry, particularly for cassava, the demand for improved disease-free cassava stems was between N6 billion and N10 billion in 2020. This was after the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) okayed the use of improved stems. The apex bank’s-midwifed programme on cassava created a huge demand following its initiative to develop cassava seed growers on 100, 000 hectares across the country. This created a huge demand for improved and disease-free planting materials that surpassed supply. To turn the cassava seed sector of the seed industry around, Sahel Consulting is leading the Processor-Led Model (PLM) component of the BASICS-II project focused on the development of a processor-associated seed system. The goal of the PLM is to demonstrate that processors can produce planting material that features profit-maximising processing characteristics for their farms and out-growers in an economically sustainable and replicable manner. The Project Manager, BASICS-II, Prof. Lateef Sanni, said the goal of the project was to provide farmers with access to affordable, quality-assured seeds of the cassava varieties in demand by local food and processor markets through the establishment of a commercially viable seed value chain operating across breeder, foundation, and commercial seed levels. Using the BASICS model, researchers screened and selected the commercial seed entrepreneurs and linked them to IITA GoSeed—an early generation seed company at the institute—for the procurement of healthy cassava seeds of improved varieties. According to Sanni, the project will enable more efficient dissemination and adoption of new varieties to improve productivity, raise incomes of cassava growers and seed entrepreneurs, enhance gender equity, and contribute to inclusive agricultural transformation. Sanni, who is also Head, International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) station in Abuja, added that the project assists farmers and organisations to become successful seed ventures. He said everyone have to work together to ensure that Nigeria develops a virus-free planting materials in order to stabilise food and job security in the cassava value chain. Last year, Sahel Consulting organised a virtual Cassava Seed Business Summit in collaboration with other partners of the Phase II (BASICS-II) project. More than 92 cassava seed sector stakeholders participated at the summit with the theme, “The critical roles of stakeholders in promoting access to quality cassava stems”. And a key objective of the summit was to provide a platform for key actors in the cassava seed sector to collaborate and share innovative models and solutions that will foster the emergence of an economically viable and sustainable formal cassava seed system. It was also aimed at encouraging private sector actors to harness the opportunities in the emerging formal seed system for cassava in Nigeria. At the summit, Partner at Sahel Consulting, Temitope Adegoroye, highlighted the challenges facing the cassava seed system, including the low yield of smallholder farmers in Nigeria despite the country accounting for  20 per cent of global cassava production. According to him, opportunities abound in the cassava seed system sub-sector that would catalyse Nigeria’s agricultural transformation. However, these opportunities, he said, have not been fully tapped for job creation, income generation, and food security.   AfCFTA: Is Nigeria ready to seize the opportunities?     The blame game over toxic petrol import continues     GSI: More hurdles for chronic loan defaulters   Adegoroye further stated that the need for effective collaboration among cassava stakeholders to maximise the potential in the value chain gave birth to the first Cassava Seed Business Summit. According to him, the summit was envisioned to be a long-standing platform in the cassava seed sector. A Director, National Root Crops Research Institute (NRCRI), Dr. Joseph Onyeka, expressed delight at the emergence of the summit, which, according to him, came at a crucial time. He stated that the summit would assist in mobilising capital and human resources to ensure timely, adequate, and profitable interventions in the cassava value chain. Following the first round of presentations, a panel session tagged “Backward integration focusing on cassava seed multiplication – The perspectives of industrial processors” provided an expose on the experiences and challenges of industrial processors. Moderated by a manager at Sahel Consulting, Chinedu Agbara, the panel comprised cassava processing industry leaders and experts namely, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Psaltry International Limited, Mrs. Yemisi Iranloye; Executive Director of Eagleson & Nito Concepts Limited and General Manager of Premium Cassava Products Limited (PCPL), Mrs. Nike Tinubu. Other panelists included the Executive Director of ATMANcorp Nigeria Limited, Mr. Seyi Oyenuga, and Managing Director of Crest Agro Products Limited, Mr. Tunde Solaja. A major takeaway from the session was the fact that low supply of quality cassava stems accounted for the decline in the operating capacity of processors’ factories. As a result of the supply gap and low starch content of available cassava stems, the cost of cassava stems represents a significant portion of the processing cost, and in some cases during the dry season, it outweighs the selling price of cassava products. In addition, the panelists affirmed that the Semi-Autotrophic Hydroponics (SAH) technology, which they are operating through a partnership with the BASICS-II project, was a valuable investment, as it enabled them to produce improved varieties of cassava stems at a greater multiplication rate and in a shorter period. The processors called for an integration of input and service providers into the BASICS-II chain of operation as well as a higher performance by research institutes in introducing new high-quality cassava varieties. Also, experts from IITA, National Agricultural Seed Council (NASC) and NRCRI and Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) have been working towards establishing a sustainable cassava seed system with the goals to increase food security and incomes for farmers. Basically, they work with partners to transform the cassava sector by improving smallholder livelihoods, and by offering the market an assured supply of sustainably produced cassava. The work, The Nation learnt, involved testing, evaluating and up-scaling end-user-preferred varieties with strong resistance to Brown Streak Disease (CBSD) and Mosaic Diseases (CMD) through various Cassava Agribusiness Seed Systems (CASS) models. Two viral diseases CBSD and CMD are said to be responsible for low yield and low-quality planting materials. They are being perpetuated by the use of virus-infected cuttings. But the GIZ-funded Cassava & Maize Value Chain Project was said to have established 60 cassava commercial seed entrepreneurs in Ogun and Oyo states as part of efforts to revamp the seeds system and create jobs in local communities. The project, which is under the Green Innovation Centres of GIZ, was created in response to the economic fragility due to COVID-19 pandemic which hurt the seeds system of several crops, including cassava; and the livelihoods of millions of farmers, especially women and youth that depend on the root crop. “We are glad that the project is establishing a sustainable seed system for cassava in these key states (Oyo and Ogun), serving as a model to other states,” IITA Project Leader of the Cassava & Maize Value Chain Project, Dr. Godwin Atser,  said. According to Atser, cassava plays a central role in the food supply of many African countries, including Nigeria, stressing that yields must increase significantly to meet expended demand and ensure food security. “This need will not be met if farmers continue to plant diseased materials of old varieties that were not bred for the changing environment. Farmers need reliable access to planting materials in a pipeline of new, improved, climate-smart varieties to increase yields, food security, resilience and supply emerging enterprises in cassava processing,” he said. Atser explained that IITA’s new sustainable cassava system model, called BASICS offers an opportunity to achieve this goal. He stated that the goal was to create a sustainable seed system that connects the value chain from growing breeder and foundation seeds to commercial seed production, incorporating genetic purity and quality assurance for health and varietal purity.