Recently, public figures especially celebrities in the entertainment industry who are held in high esteem by teeming fans have been subjects of public ridicule and backlash. To many, especially celebrities, scandals and controversies are inevitable and the spice of the industry. The conspicuous display of moral challenge has become the primary spectacle of major entertainers over the years. This week, a lot has been said since the disturbing explicit video of songwriter and singer, Ikuforiji Olaitan Abdulrahman, popularly known as Oxlade, leaked online. He, is the third Nigerian celebrity whose sex tape would leak online in three months. The release of the explicit content sent social media into a frenzy and triggered divided opinions. Many wondered why two sane adults would record their secret amorous moment and let it come to public light in that manner? To achieve what exactly? - Advertisement - But some others argued that copulating is something natural but recording and uploading intentionally or unintentionally is not, except maybe for porn stars.   Igboho: Caught between the devil and the deep blue sea     Abba Kyari: PSC delays verdict, orders investigation by…     Controversy as Oluwo denies soliciting N20m to marry Kano…   The 24-year-old singer became famous after his singles ”Ojuju” and ‘Away’ became monster hits. He rose to prominence with the song “Away,” which appeared on Rolling Stone’s 50 best songs of 2020. In addition, he was featured on the song “Overdue” from ”Coming 2 America” studio album Rhythms of Zamunda, released on 5 March 2021. Oxlade has now joined the league of celebrities with ‘leaked’ explicit content in the entertainment industry, taking over from Tiwa Savage who was caught in the web of the same scandal last year. Many users speculated that the musician was on drugs or was under the influence of alcohol with the crazy displays in the viral videos. While others believe it’s a marketing strategy, the explicit content just dropped a few days after releasing ‘Baddest Boy refix,’ which didn’t go viral on social media.