A community leader in the riverine area of Ondo State, Chief Bibopere Ajube, has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to deploy more machines to ensure the success of the ongoing voter registration in the area. Ajube, more popularly known by his traditional title, the Beleukoriwei (pathfinder) of Arogbo Ijaw Kingdom, said the exercise has failed in Ese-Odo due to lack of machines to execute the assignment. Ajube made the remark when a delegation of the Ijaw National Congress (INC), Akure Chapter in Ondo State, paid him a courtesy visit. A statement by its Assistant Secretary, John Ebiofini said the visit was centred on how to effectively mobilize the people of Ese-Odo Local Government in Ondo State towards the success of the ongoing voters’ registration exercise. The community leader said it is unimaginable that only one machine was assigned to each local government and is stationed at the headquarters, which is far away from many communities. He said: “This arrangement is not effective because it entails rural dwellers travelling to local government headquarters areas for the exercise. I urge INEC to deploy more machines to rural communities to capture dwellers of such places.” Ajube said it is the duty of political parties to mobilise the citizenry for registration exercise because it is to promote their aspirations and that they have failed in this regard. - Advertisement - The Chairman of Akure chapter of INC, Bonsuwei Ominidongha, promised to hold regular meetings with the two clans – Arogbo Ijaw and Apoi Ijaw leaders on how to mobilize the people for a successful registration exercise. He said INEC will collaborate with traditional and religious leaders to reach out to rural dwellers to ensure the success of the exercise.   ‘Dialogue, brute force will halt insecurity’     ‘I have a robust plan for Delta South’     Who is Bola Ahmed Tinubu?   Read Also: INEC bars Boot Party from Ekiti Gov poll, rejects primary Ominidougha said that it is highly difficult to penetrate into the settlements in the remote part of the kingdom due to the presence of weeds on the water highways, particularly water hyacinth, which is posing a threat to the easy movement of people in search of their daily bread. He urged the state government to direct Ondo State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (OSOPADEC), an interventionist agency in the oil-producing communities to intervene and clear the creeks to make them passable. He said many villages are cut off from the rest of the kingdom because of the menace posed by the weeds and that government must come to the aid of the communities by opening up the waterways to aid economic activities in the areas affected. Ominidougha thanked Beleukoriwe Ajube for his assistance to the communities in the areas of health delivery and education. The community leader seized the opportunity to call on the Federal Government and the Minister for Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio to revoke and re-award the Agadagba Obon/Arogbo township link bridge contract to a reputable construction firm for completion. He said the contract of the link bridge was awarded to a company over a decade ago, but it abandoned it after collecting a mobilization fee running to billions of naira. He emphasized the importance of the bridge, adding that “it will definitely boost economic activities of Arogbo Township, which is unarguably the headquarters of the entire kingdom, particularly now that Agadagba Obon has become the business hub of the entire coastal area and the hinterland as well”. Ominidougha has however assured the Arogbo and Apoi Ijaws in Ese-Odo of his assistance to ensure the success of the exercise.