Ayodeji Ogundiran is Managing Director/CEO, Fuelmetrics Incorporated, a technology-driven company with focus on oil and gas. In this interview with Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf, Ogundiran who originally trained as a Computer Scientist after a few years stints at the aviation sector, ICT, consultancy to mention just a few subsequently opted into software and hardware manufacturing to address challenges besetting the energy sub-sector and allied services. Excerpts:  Getting involved in the fuel management and supply chain To say the oil and gas sector is capital intensive is certainly stating the obvious. The irony, however, is that most of the investments in the sector are not only risk-prone but can put the investors in debt-crises and completely out of business if certain safety nets are not put in place. Little wonder for investors like Ayodeji Ogundiran, one of the major reasons they decided to focus on fuel management and supply chain is to address the hiccups within the energy subsector. “Our company, Fuelmetrics, is a company set up to bridge the gap in the downstream oil and gas sector. This gap is purely a technological gap. While we are trying to do things around the energy sector we have been very much focused on the petroleum industry. The petroleum industry in Nigeria is purely manual. Attendance wake up every morning, pick up metres, opening and closing reading. At the end of the shift there is a manager at the back of it who does the computation and sends it to the management, depending on the structure of the station. This exposes them to a lot of error, fraud, and prevents them from making sensible decisions from data. And that is the problem we are solving. We are providing them with reliable technology to automate most of these processes, and putting the management or the owner of the station or the company in control of their business. They could be anywhere in the world, and realtime they know how much sales we make. This is where we need to correct. This is what we need to optimise to improve our business. So, in layman’s terms, we’re helping our energy marketers to optimise their business and make them more profitable.” Homegrown technology to the rescue - Advertisement - One sector where the country had dearth of manpower to drive operations until recently was the oil and gas industry because of poor technology transfer, adaptability, etc. But the narrative is fast changing with concerted efforts by the team at Fuelmetrics who took the bulls by the horns by coming up with a product called Epump Go, which is 100 per cent homegrown. “We made both the software and the hardware that you will connect to the pump to get data. That’s remarkable because we are this first company out of Africa making these devices. The solution is called forecourt automation. It’s not entirely new globally. It’s been around for decades. But we are the first out of Africa manufacturing ourselves. At the initial stage we were importing from Europe and different countries, buying the hardware. But we have always made our software ourselves.  But what we discovered is that they weren’t optimised for our environment: power-wise, operations-wise.”   ALA partners PMI to change lives of over 100 students     Binance Unites J Balvin, Jimmy Butler, others join big game…     Customers lament indiscriminate bank charges   The typical forecourt controller imported is also very prohibitive when it come s to cost with an average of $10-20million. But with Fuelmetris that has been addressed also. “In fact, these days, you don’t need to pay for the devices again; just pay the monthly subscription.” In terms of compatibility, Ogundiran says building these devices ourselves locally helped us to adapt to the environment. “The European guy is thinking about his own market. He is not exactly thinking about the African market. “We sat down and thought about the challenges in the market. Things as basic as power, power reliability, purity of power and all sorts, we were able to overcome that. When these stations themselves were built, they weren’t built with a provision that in the future we are going to double energy. What that would mean is that if we continue to buy from those markets, to deploy in a station, you have to close the station for some days. Run cables; break the grounds, run wires and all of that. So, we came to the board and said you know what we need to think of this problem differently. And we built something that requires no cabling, they are purely wireless and embed into the plant. To avoid installation downtime, each device installation is done individually such that operations are not affected. That’s what makes us different.” Besides, the product addresses the intractable problem of sabotage, curbs theft, revenue leakages as well as gives operators red flags once an operation is being compromised. Making inroads into other markets As to be expected the company barely after three years of full scale operation already has prospective patrons asking for their offering within sub-Sahara Africa including Kenya, Rwanda and Uganda. An elated Ogundiran said they didn’t expect the huge leap and ditto for the level of acceptability in the home market. Shockingly, he said matter-of-factly that the modest success they have been able to achieve thus far is purely through testimonies and word of mouth by clients who have enjoyed much of their offerings. “Our market penetration within the country is just less than 5 %, all possible by referrals and word of mouth by those who have used their products and services. Of course, we’re determined to scale up our marketing strategy as we believe this will enable us to bring the products to the doorsteps of our prospects.” The technology entrepreneur who has since carved a niche for himself in the multi-billion-dollar IT industry, is however not resting on his oars. He says matter-of-factly that his core mandate is to simplify the complexities associated with doing business in the petroleum and energy ecosystem.   SPONSORED