Except there is a multi-sectoral collaboration to tackle the challenges facing the Universal Health Coverage (UHC), Nigeria may not achieve the key Social Development Goals (SDGs) by the end of this decade, The Nation has learnt. Besides, health will not be a fundamental human right for Nigerians as expected in the SDGs. Speaking during a virtual training of reporters by Leadway Health, its Head, Medical Services,  Dr. Temitope Falae, in a paper entitled: “Universal Health Coverage (UHC) – Challenges and recommendation”, said the UHC emphasises,  not only what services are covered, but also how they are funded, managed and delivered. He added that while the SDGs have a commitment to deliver UHC, progress has not been made by moves to ensure that the key SDGs will be met by 2030. Offering recommendations to the challenge, he said people-centered health care systems delivering UHC are crucial to future health and prosperity in sub-Saharan Africa and are an achievable goal with better political commitment. - Advertisement - He also said multi-séctoral collaboration to address the challenges in the roadmap to UHC attainment is imperative to ensure that health is truly a fundamental human right. Relying on the World Health Organisation (WHO) figures, he said Nigeria spent a relatively small proportion of its national income on health – about four per cent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) as at last year as against the 15 per cent in the 2001 Abuja Declaration. Also, the country’s out-of-pocket expenditure on health is among the highest in the world at 77.23 per cent of total health expenditure and the highest in Africa. In all, private health insurance accounts for less than three per cent of the population.   CIIN President gets honorary doctorate     ‘Cyber perils, political risks, violence top business risks’     How govt can reduce budget deficit, by expert   Falae said: “A voluntary National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) exists in Nigeria but covers less than five per cent of the population. Nigeria’s informal economy, which accounts for more than 60 per cent of its total GDP, is still largely uncovered. “To bridge the coverage gap, several states have commenced the establishment of State Health Insurance Schemes. At present, about 19 states are at various stages of their implementation journey. Anambra, Delta and Lagos states have, particularly, made significant progress enrollment.’’ He maintained that there is no single approach to achieving UHC, noting that the strategies would depend on the circumstances. “Improving UHC requires addressing building blocks of health systems with a proper roadmap from policy, implementation and monitoring. Under the health systems, system building blocks have to do with service delivery, health workforce, information; medical products, vaccines and technologies; financing; and leadership governance. “This should lead to access coverage and quality safety efficiency sustainability. The overall goal and outcomes would be improved health level and equity; responsiveness; and social and financing risk protection,”he added. Falae highlighted the challenges of health financing as underfunding, skewed funding allocation in favour of secondary and tertiary care as against primary healthcare, and poor public financial management. “The recommendations include diversification of sources of funding; increased funding for primary healthcare services through public private partnership; state funded private health insurance in collaboration with private HMOs; better funding/incentives for health providers in rural communities; and fraud prevention and systems to check corruption,” he said. On healthcare providers, he said they were set to jettison  their contracts with private health insurance companies across Nigeria. He said limited political commitment to health and primary healthcare, poor policy formation, and lack of clarity on roles and responsibilities at various levels of the system were major problems in the system.   . SPONSORED