Troops of Operation Delta Safe have uncovered how crude oil thieves perpetrate their nefarious activities in the creeks of the Niger Delta. Fifty galvanized pipes illegally connected to pipelines from where crude is diverted to illegal refineries were found and excavated, while 12 of the economic saboteurs were arrested. According to the Director, Defence Media Operations, Major General Benard Onyeuko, disclosed that a total of 2,531,000 litres of illegally refined Automotive Gas Oil and and 2,807,000 litres of stolen crude oil were recovered in the course of the operations in the last two weeks. In his words, “in the last two weeks, troop discovered and destroyed a total of 45 illegal refining sites, 72 cooking ovens, 127 metal storage tanks, 30 dug out pits, 23 cotonou boats, 47 pumping machine and nine tankers. Twelve economic saboteurs associated with pipeline vandalization were arrested within the period. All the apprehended criminals and recovered items have been handed over to the appropriate authorities for further action.”   BREAKING: Supreme Court declares Executive Order 10…     Three die, one injured on Lagos-Ibadan expressway predawn…     Zulum zooms in, by Femi Adesina   Also within the time under review, a total of 965 terrorists surrendered to troops at Marte, including 104 fighters from ISWAP Camp. - Advertisement - Onyeuko added, “cumulatively, the troops within the period under review, neutralized 120 fighters, arrested 50 of the terrorists, five gun trucks, 50 assorted arms and 200 rounds of different calibers of ammunition were captured from the terrorists. Additionally, troops rescued 25 abducted civilians. “Similarly, a total of 965 terrorists and their families and 550 children surrendered to own troops deployed at different location including: Gamboru, Tumbumma, Kukawa, Baga, Gwoza, Mallam Fotori, Damboa, Kirta Wulgo, Bun Yadi, Gujiba, Madiya all in Borno and Yobe State. It is noteworthy to state that out of the 965 terrorists that surrendered within the period under review 104 are from ISWAP Camp that surrendered to own troops at Marte. The surrendered terrorist have been properly documented and handed over to the appropriate authorities”. Under Operation Hadin Kai, the Director, disclosed that, “own troops consolidated their operational success against Boko Haram and Islamic State West Africa Province Terrorist (ISWAP) in the last three weeks. Some of the areas which the operations were conducted are; Bama, Gwoza, Monguno, Kanduga, Damboa, Damasak, Gudumbali and Nganzi Local Government Area, Kukawa, Chibok as well as Sambisa Forest, Kirta Wulgo in Marte Local Government of Borno State.