Senator Magus Abe has called on residents of Korokoro community in Tai Local Government of Rivers State to chose the right leaders in next year’s general election. The former representative of Rivers Southeast, including Tai, in the Senate in 2011 and 2016, appealed to the people to use the opportunity of the 2023 elections to vote in leaders that would place the interests of the populace above their personal interests. He spoke at the weekend during a thank you visit on members of the “Supreme Council of Traditional Rulers of Ogoni”, at the palace of their President and Gbenemene of Tai Kingdom, HRM, King Godwin Gininwa. The traditional rulers pledged to support Abe to become the governor, and the presidential ambition of the All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Addressing a crowd of rural dwellers, who came to welcome the APC chieftain and his entourage to the community, Abe reiterated his advice to the monarchs at the palace. - Advertisement - He said: “We’re here to express appreciation to the Supreme Council of Ogoni Traditional Rulers, for the honour done us when it conferred on me, the title of ‘Mene Swanu 1 of Ogoniland’. We just came to tell them thank you. “Another general election will hold in the country next year. It is an opportunity for Nigerians to elect the government of their choice. “I told members of the Traditional Rulers Council that elections are held in this country every four years, and that it is another time for them to choose who runs the government for four years.   CSO urges states, parties to adopt Osun APC primary’s model     Lasun declines comment     How Oyetola trounced Aregbesola’s man Adeoti   “It is who you like that will run the government that you want. Hence, take advantage of the opportunity to choose a government that will serve you. Choose a government that will be afraid of you, not the one you will be afraid of. “Choose a government that will place your rights, your feelings, needs, aspirations and hopes above every other consideration in governance of your state and communities, then blame yourselves when he fails to serve your interests.” Abe spoke about the need to sensitise the people of the community and the Ogoni at large on the need not to make mistakes during the elections. “I have told members of the Supreme Council of Traditional Rulers that they need to educate our people on the importance and the power of votes, because it is your votes that create the government. So, if you are the one creating the government, you should vote the government that you create and the government that you create should serve you, work for you and have your interest above every other interests. “That is the government that you can have, if you take your time to choose on what happens to your votes. “Take this message home, educate your families, friends and subjects on the need to make wise decisions, make the right choices while choosing your leaders next year,” he said. Abe assured the people that their votes under the President Muhammadu Buhari government would count. The spokesman for the Traditional Supreme Council, Mene Samuel Nnee, had called on Abe to declare his interest in the governorship race. He said: “We love you so much and we are assure you that we support whatever you identify with, because you represent the best for Ogoni people. “This is why, although you may be reluctant to say it, we want you to come up and say it. We want you to come and lead us in Rivers State, and the time is now, 2023 is by the corner.” SPONSORED