Love has turned sour for former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, 76 and estranged wife, Jennifer Douglas (in her 50s).  This week, the fair-complexioned erstwhile wife of the Turaki Adamawa, unexpectedly set off shockwaves when she broke silence to speak on divorcing the politician. Prior to their separation, Jennifer had campaigned for Atiku during the 2019 elections especially across the Southeast region. She also appeared at high octane events, making her the cynosure of all eyes. In the heat of their messy separation, the Anambra-born lawyer disclosed that the divorce was finalised on June 26, 2021. In her lengthy statement, Jennifer said she decided to give her own account of the issue to address the various speculations trailing her efforts to get a divorce. She chronologically highlighted the bone of contention between her and the former vice president, revealing their union broke down due to disagreements over her continued stay in the United Kingdom, amongst other long-standing issues. - Advertisement - According to her, she needed to play the role of a mother to the children who have gone through the absence of both father and mother growing up; especially, with the passing of her older sister, who used to look after them. She further highlighted the role of some of Atiku’s friends including Peter Okocha, Senator Ben Obi, Tunde Ayeni, Captain Yahaya, and Senator Ben Bruce who tried to mediate and stop the divorce, but their efforts failed.   51 monarchs receive Staff of office in Imo     APC chair: Al-Makura, Akume, Mustapha, Bwari in hot race for…     Lassa fever kills 40 persons in 30 days, says NCDC   Jennifer has three children for Atiku – Abdulmalik, Zahra and Faisal, and the union lasted over two decades. Although she acknowledged being aware of his marriage to a new wife, despite not being officially informed, she said she supported Atiku’s 2019 presidential race and also invited them (her ex-husband and his new wife) to her son’s wedding in 2018. She justified Atiku’s move to marry another wife, saying that he is a Muslim and at liberty to marry as many wives as he desires. Jennifer, a Nigerian Television Authority News correspondent in the 1980s, claimed her life was threatened after requesting to divorce her husband. She also noted the threat made her leave the country, adding that she had to exit her law firm and sell assets in Nigeria. She further claimed that Atiku requested to collect an asset previously given to her, adding that the property in Dubai is now a subject of litigation. A trip down memory lane shows Atiku married Titi in 1971. In January 1979 he married Ladi. In 1983, he married his third wife, Princess Rukaiyatu. He then married Fatima his fourth wife in 1986. He reportedly divorced Ladi, allowing him to marry his now-estranged wife, Jennifer. Now, Jennifer has opened a can of worms and set the records straight against Atiku, who is nursing a presidential ambition in 2023. Perhaps the former VP is too busy consulting to respond to his wife. One thing is clear though, the last thing he needs now is the distraction of a matrimonial drama.