It is an open secret in Nigeria that the harvest is so few but the labourers are plenty. According to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) 33.3 percent or 23.2 million Nigerians out of the 70 million working population are unemployed. But it is not just a Nigerian problem. In most emerging markets, graduate unemployment averages about 7.97%, according to a recent MSCI report. Despite these gloomy pictures, it is still possible to come out of the university today, secure gainful employment, and grow your career. Below are three things you must understand and do differently if you must join the lucky few: - Advertisement - The difference between fresh graduates from elite homes who secure jobs quickly after graduation and those from poor homes who wait for an additional two to three years before securing a job is an internship opportunity. This is a global problem. A recent report in BusinessDay culled from the Harvard Business Review cites how fresh graduates in China are ditching their interests in traditional career roles to seek opportunities in tech due to the inability to secure internship opportunities. Ideally, every undergraduate should intern and gain invaluable experience in the profession of interest. However, most students, especially those from poor homes cannot afford it because someone has to support them with transportation and feeding at least, since there are hardly any paid student internship placements in Nigeria. Students in that category usually miss this important opportunity. It does not help that they also have to worry about the next session’s tuition and other expenses. If you have missed the opportunity to intern during your undergraduate days, you must seek an internship opportunity after you graduate. You should understand that as a fresh graduate, the odds are already stacked against you succeeding simply because you have neither access to the system nor the understanding of its modus operandi. Therefore, your first pre-occupation should be how to reduce those odds. To reduce the odds, your first line of attack is gaining experience, and gaining experience should start with an internship. Think about any experience upon graduation as an expression of interest to be part of the economic system.   Top five Nigerian hip hop songs in early 2000s’     NBS: Inflation drops to 15.60% in January     Investors jostle for dollar assets as returns hit 20%   - Advertisement - Think of it as an opportunity to prove yourself and to build your character. It hardly goes beyond those two. I can assure you that the first five years after leaving school is about proving that you can do the job and that you have the character to continue to do so profitably. It is the dream of most fresh graduates to land that dream job upon graduation. However, the reality is that few employers are willing to absorb greenhorns into their workforce. As a fresh graduate without any work experience, you are more or less liability to any organisation that hires you. This is why many employers are reluctant to hire you even though you are smart and have graduated with good grades. This problem is not peculiar to Nigeria. It is a global reality. Whether here in Nigeria or even in the developed West, studies show that young people under the age of 30, just leaving the university contend with the dilemma of scarce entry-level positions and employers’ demand for experienced, skilled workers. It is in your best interest to seek opportunities that will give you that experience as opposed to opportunities that will make you money in the short term and get you to pay bills. You have to think long-term and understand that there is a difference between a career and a job. Any work that earns you money is a job but if it is not something that you can do for a significant period of your life, then it is not a career. Prioritize experience over salaried jobs that will not lead to a career. Whether as an intern or in your first official job, you need a mentor. The Oxford Dictionary defines a mentor as an experienced person who advises and helps somebody with less experience over a period. The definition of mentorship I found more interesting is the one I found on a Wikipedia article, which explains “mentorship as a relationship in which a more experienced or more knowledgeable person helps to guide a less experienced or less knowledgeable person. The mentor may be older or younger than the person being mentored, but they must have a certain area of expertise. It is a learning and development partnership between someone with vast experience and someone who wants to learn”. If it was imperative for one to have a mentor in college or university, it is even more so while starting a career. You see, a mentor is someone who has been on a journey you are about to embark on. He has not only been on that journey, but he has also done an excellent job at it. By associating yourself with him and learning at his feet, you save yourself from costly, regrettable mistakes and the attendant grief. Getting a mentor is also an acknowledgment of your limitations and need for improvement. It means you are humble and patient enough to learn the ropes. Some people do very well in their academics and it gets into their heads so much that they think they do not need any help. However, the corporate world is unlike school at all. It is a different monster, so you need someone who has tamed this monster and learned what you must do differently. SPONSORED