Tragedy was averted on Friday as a yet-to-be-identified driver escaped death after a Saloon Optima KIA vehicle fell off the very busy Shehu Yar Adua bridge opposite the Jabi Lake Mall, in the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, Abuja. It was gathered that the accident occurred around 10am. According to findings, the white-colored car reportedly missed Jabi Lake by a few inches. An official of the Federal Road Safety Commission, FRSC, who reportedly witnessed the accident but pleaded not to be named because he was not authorised to speak on the matter, said the driver lost control due to overspeeding. The FRSC officer said: “The driver of the car was running very fast on the speed lane when another car interrupted him and he attempted to veer towards the service lane. - Advertisement - “He, however lost control as the car swerved off the neck of the bridge and glided dangerously towards the lake and only stopped inches from the water. “The driver of the vehicle came out alive and was taken to a nearby hospital,” the official added, although he did not disclose the name of the hospital.   VIDEO: Driver escapes death as car falls off Jabi bridge,…     Rivers receives N2bn from CBN’s investment funds     Corps members to enjoy insurance cover as NYSC unveils…   A statement by the Head Public Relation Unit of the Federal Capital Territory Emergency Management Agency, (FEMA), Nkechi Isa said: “An unidentified driver of a Saloon Optima KIA vehicle, has escaped unhurt, after his vehicle fell off the busy Shehu Yar’Adua bridge, opposite the Jabi Lake Mall, Abuja yesterday evening. “The driver was the lone occupant of the vehicle contrary to reports on social media. The statement said the vehicle missed the Jabi Lake by a few inches. “It informed that the recovery of the accident vehicle is ongoing by a joint operation involving the Federal Road Safety Corps,(FRSC), Directorate of Road Traffic Services,(VIO), the Nigeria Police Force and FEMA. “The cause of the accident is yet to be ascertained”.