Filmmaker Durotimi Aruwa has said collaboration between Nollywood and the South African film industry is a goldmine waiting to be exploited. With over forty Nollywood movies to his credit, Daniel said both film industries are thriving with Nigeria having an upper hand in the quantity and popularity of films while South Africa holds sway in quality and advertising. The filmmaker also added that collaborations will not only generate more revenue but will also strengthen the relationship between the two countries. With almost 20 years of experience, Aruwa analysed the inherent opportunities in the collaborations of the two film industries saying, “Nigeria is currently one of the three major film producers in the world. The other two are US and India. The Nigerian film industry is the biggest in Africa in terms of the numbers of films produced annually, revenue generated, and popularity. South Africa also produces high-quality television and film content. It has a thriving audio-visual, advertising, and corporate video sub-sector with a bourgeoning talent. Between 2019 and 2020, the industry contributed R7. 2-billion to the economy and sustained 31,444 jobs.   Oxford University gets first Igbo language lecturer     Wife stabs senior rival to death in Ondo     Burna Boy’s elated grandma praises singer over bag gift   “South Africa has a lot of amazing locations for film production especially Durban, Cape Town, and Gauteng. The crew members are also very well trained. - Advertisement - “Also, Nollywood already has a growing audience in South Africa. Several South Africans watch Nollywood films and are very familiar with Nollywood stars. I remember a popular South African music star telling me how his mum watches Nigerian films almost every day. Several Nigerians who are Nollywood lovers also reside in South Africa. Therefore, the market is already there.” The filmmaker will be shooting his debut film in South Africa in March 2022. The film will feature Nigerian and South African top stars. Aruwa, who specialises in post-production, producing, and directing, has worked on productions that include Crazy, Lovely, Cool (Series), and Brother Jekwu amongst others. SPONSORED