Oando Plc has assured that it would release all delayed results before the end of this year as the energy solutions group works to regain its full compliance status. In a regulatory filing, Oando noted that its interim and audited results were delayed as a result of the then indefinite suspension of the company’s 2018 annual general meeting (AGM) by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on June 10, 2019, thus preventing the company’s shareholders from appointing an auditor for its 2019 financials. Oando resolved its dispute with the SEC in July 2021, and subsequently held its 42nd AGM in August 2021, where shareholders appointed Ernst & Young as auditors of its 2019 financials. Consequent to the audit and filing of its 2019 financials, Oando explained that it would hold its 43rd AGM where it would propose that shareholders appoint an auditor for the filing of its 2020 and 2021 audited financial statements rather than having two separate AGMs for this purpose, all towards mitigating any further delays in the release of its financials. “In this regard the company is confident that it will be in full compliance with its regulatory requirements regarding its annual financial statements and unaudited financial statements by the end of December 2022,” Oando stated. - Advertisement - Oando assured that it is working tirelessly with its external auditors to ensure that the 2019 audited financial statement is expeditiously finalised in accordance with the full requirements of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and other subsequent results with a view to clear all backlog of delayed results by the end of this year.   Airtel Africa grows net profit by 97.3% to $514m in Q3     Expert advises on investment tips to beat inflation     ‘Stockbroking firms need innovation, technology to thrive’   “Irrespective of the unfortunate delays, which are for reasons clearly beyond our control, we are confident that the company will be in full compliance with its regulatory requirements regarding its annual financial statements and unaudited financial statements by the end of December 2022. “We thank our esteemed stakeholders for their patience and support thus far and will keep the market abreast of any further developments in this matter,” Oando stated. She noted that investors should take advantage of sectors such as commodities, financials, healthcare, consumer staples, energy, technology and real estate to build a balanced portfolio. “ There are resilient stocks that thrive during inflation because of their underlying assets. Investors should build their portfolios with stocks of companies in the healthcare, energy, commodities, consumer staples, financials and real estate among others as a risk and reward trade off. We should not lose sight of mutual funds which is a collection of investment in different asset classes.   “ At Futureview, we design financial products to meet the demand of our array of customers with diverse investment objectives and risk tolerance. For instance, we have a product that targets Nigerians in diaspora. It is called Futureview Dollar Fund. We floated it along with Futureview Equity Fund. The two financial instruments hedge investment against inflation while they provide regular income.   “ It is settled in portfolio management that during high inflation rate, mutual funds provide an opportunities for diversification at every dollar level, sharing of investment expenses, economies of scale and operational efficiencies, ease of investing  in specialized market sectors and investment tracking, simple portfolio management, access to professional money managers and  low trading costs,” Nnodi.