Ondo Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has blamed Federal Government’s bureaucratic bottlenecks for the delay in the take off of the construction of a seaport in the State known as ‘Port Ondo’. Akeredolu disclosed that investors were ready to move in and all the papers ready but the Federal Government was yet to issue policy direction from the federal executive council. He spoke while delivering his key note address at the ongoing 3-day retreat for Political Office Holders and Accounting Officers in the State. The Governor however insisted that the construction of the seaport would soon commence. Akeredolu said the construction of seaports should not be the concern of the Federal Government. - Advertisement - He said: “There is contradiction in our federalism. We have a system where there must be a port declaration by the federal executive council before you proceed. “I have always wondered; the port is in my state and I have people who are prepared to invest. But the federal government is holding on to the port declaration. I believe that states should be left to determine their deep sea port and the investors.   Onitsha traders protest illegal shops construction     Evans denies kidnapping businessman, collecting $420,000…     Air Peace to resume direct flights to Dubai, March 1   “For us as a State, we have been at this since our first day in government. We found out that we have the deepest draft in Ondo state. “Our port, we will go ahead. Nothing will stop it, it is a matter of time. It is a port, not only for Nigeria for the west Africa because of its deepest draft. “How do we finance it? I traveled, I spoke to Dubai port. I spoke to China habour. Dubai port has even written that they are interested. ”Our dream for this port in Ondo State is to serve as a conduit for our goods, agricultural produce and very soon, our bitumen. ”It is the goal of this administration to ensure that the potential of Ondo State is maximised and that all necessary infrastructure required to make this a reality is put in place to achieve this,” Governor Akeredolu told political office holders and accounting officers that he was determined to recalibrate government for effective and efficient service delivery. Akeredolu said his REDEEMED agenda was built around sustainable development goals. He said the development goals would only be achieved with improved revenue generation.