Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stakeholders in the Southeast are mounting pressure on Enugu State Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi to join the 2023 presidential race, it was learnt yesterday. Ugwuanyi is being projected by some political leaders in the zone who, at the weekend, described him as “the best man for the job”. The move the drag the governor into the race is being championed by a former governor and senator representing the Enugu East District, Chimaraoke Nnamani. The renewed agitation in the Southeast for the PDP ticket is coming a few days after Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike declared that the party should zone it to the South. Wike, who objected to the quest for the PDP ticket by chieftains of northern extraction, urged the South to insist on the ticket. - Advertisement - He said: “The day the South will speak, Nigeria will shake. We believe in the unity of this country, but nobody can threaten us. Nobody should threaten us. We believe in the unity of Nigeria and unity of Nigeria must continue.” Nnamani, in a statement he personally signed, at the weekend, said the Southeast should produce the next president in the interest of justice, fairness and equity. He said: “Our leaders, including the Ebeano political family in Nigeria and in the diaspora, have consulted widely and seriously believe in the actualisation of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State as the presidential candidate of the PDP and president in 2023.” The lawmaker said the zone had been plagued by unfavourable socio-economic and political history that required a consensus builder like Ugwuanyi to handle.   ASUU begins mobilisation for another strike in varsities     No territory under terror group, says Fed Govt     MTN’s new shareholders get N5.7b dividends   Nnamani said Governor Ugwuanyi, as the Southeast PDP leader, is a consensus builder, adding that the governor had fostered political harmony in the region. Nnamani said traditional rulers, the clergy, workers union, the business community and the political class in the zone have identified with Ugwunayi’s uncommon leadership qualities. He added: “His successful handling of the PDP zoning arrangement, which brought peace among party faithful across the country, is a testimony to his capacity at building consensus. “The governor was able to manage the assignment without any blemish within a few days, thereby confirming his competence and arbitrage qualities. “Governor Ugwuanyi’s relationship with the labour unions is unprecedented. No record of industrial dispute with any workers’ union since he assumed office. He runs an open-door administration and all stakeholders are satisfied. He is the kind of leader Nigeria needs as President. “Governor Ugwuanyi is patient and a master of give-and-take required in consensus building. A good listener and negotiator with demonstrable competence. This is exactly what the nation needs at this time.” In Nnamani’s view, Ugwuanyi is a fit and proper person to lead Nigeria out of the doldrums, adding that he has demonstrated the ability to calm frayed nerves, ensure equity and justice for all. He stressed: “He has the finesse, panache and good leadership traits needed to restore the peace, unity and progress of Nigeria.” The ex-governor called on the PDP leadership to give the Southeast the opportunity to prove that Nigeria can work by zoning the 2023 ticket to Ugwuanyi. He said: “Ugwuanyi’s candidacy would win the poll for the PDP and ultimately restore public trust and confidence in government.