Dr Akintoye Akindele, the Executive Chairman, Atlantic International Refinery and Petrochemical Ltd., has announced a gift of N5 million each to the best two graduating students of Caleb University in the 2020/2021 academic session. Akindele, who is also a philanthropist announced this while delivering the convocation lecture of the university with the title: ‘ The Rhetoric and Reality of Youth as Game Changers’ on Saturday in Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Iredia Ejehi of the Computer Science department was announced the overall best graduating female student with a Cumulative Grade Point Aggregate (CGPA) of 4.92. Also, Ifezue Humphrey of the Computer Science department bagged the overall best graduating male student with 4.84 CGPA. Akindele pledged to work with some partners to jointly sponsor 22 indigent students from the university from next year to support the current efforts of the university.   Gov Abiodun gives AAP best student N1m, automatic employment     Foundation donates to Makoko pupils today     Bribery has consumed education system, proprietor laments   He tasked the university to establish the school of African History, Heritage and Archeology to encourage a lot of research into the history, artifacts and a better understanding of the society’s past and project into the future. According to him, a partnership will also be entered into with the school to build an innovation Incubation Centre. “Caleb University’s ICT students are known for excellence because they are usually certified even before they graduate and can start innovation as well when acquiring those skills. ” With an incubation center, the students can transform their ideas into reality, so that before they graduate, some of them are already entrepreneurs and business owners, creating jobs. ” With this, we will be marrying education with entrepreneurship and innovation, ” he said. The university‘s Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Nosa Owens-Ibie in his response, thanked Akindele and said that he was optimistic that the philanthropist would deliver on his promises, following his track record and love for education. (NAN)