The Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Export Promotion Council, Dr. Ezra Yakusak has assured Port Operators under the umbrella of Domestic Export Warehouse (DEW) of government’s support to fastrack movement of goods at the ports.The NEPC ED gave the assurance when executives of DEW Operators visited him in Abuja, noting that Nigeria’s inability to convert its enormous comparative advantage in production of agricultural produce is hampered by supply chain constraints. The ED said the supply chain (storage, logistics, etc.), which is very important in ensuring timely delivering of exportable products to buyers and importers is a critical factor in meeting export orders. According to Dr. Yakusak,  “The Council conceived the Domestic Export Warehouse (DEW) as a proposed one-stop Facility/Terminal, for storage of products, packaging and labeling, pre-shipment inspection and fumigation of export designated goods in preparation for ultimate transportation to the Ports.   Professionals task service providers to support MSMEs     Ikeazor, others for annual Aret Adams memorial lecture     Transtura acquires WazoMoney   “It is expected to serve as a One-Stop Shop function to reduce the challenges exporters faced in moving their goods/cargoes from hinterland to ports. DEW is a structured to assist exporters conduct their pre-export operations within a facility and ease logistical constraints associated with export to the ports,” he explained. Yakusak added that the Council initiated the DEW concept with the development of the DEW Project Document in August 2020, and this was followed by series of activities including, an Engagement Session in September 2020, with export related agencies and the private sector in Abuja, Lagos and Port-Harcourt for inputs and validation of the Project Document. - Advertisement - “The Council received over 300 applications from prospective DEW operators, after screening of the applicants, series of inspection visits to about 20 prospective DEW operators by the DEW Technical Committee to ascertain their readiness and capacity based on agreed checklist.” Speaking, President of the Dew Operators, Tajudeen Bissimillahi said the rationale behind the visit is to seek for regulatory partnership and synergy with the NEPC to enhance their operations, while assuring that the group will work in all capacity with the government in ensuring the domestic export is being cleared in good time to reach its trade destination.   SPONSORED