The Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, said the Federal Government is looking into using nuclear fusion energy  to meet the electricity demand of the country. He said research on the technology was ongoing in other countries and the government is watching with keen interest. Onu stated that the technology which involves the simulation of an artificial sun here on earth has made significant progress so far. He spoke in Abuja, at the stakeholders’ review of the National Energy policy and master plan of the Energy Commission of Nigeria (ECN). He said: “We are watching with keen interest the research going on in many countries, in different continents of the world, in nuclear fusion for energy use. The progress made so far is very significant, particularly as it affects the simulation of an artificial sun here on earth.   Akande on governance     The invasion of Ukraine and regime change     Fuel scarcity: Issues and solutions   - Advertisement - “The progress made in this research may appear small, but it is very significant and important in energy generation. The countries involved in this research in nuclear fusion, are planning to achieve energy sufficiency in the future for their various nations. Nigeria cannot afford to be left behind in this vital area. Though this research is very capital intensive, but definitely, sometime in the future, Nigeria will join other nations to exploit: the atom for energy supply.” Director-General, ECN, Prof. Eli Bala, who explained parts of the policy statement said: “The energy supply situation is erratic and epileptic, coupled with inadequate coverage in terms of geographical spread. “In a study conducted by the Presidential Advisory Committee on 25-year Power Development Plan, the electricity demand projection for a 10 per cent annual growth of the GDP was given as about 16,000 MW, 30,000MW and 192,000MW for 2010, 2015 and 2030. The achievement of the above projected generation capacity will ensure that per capita electricity consumption would be about 5,026kWh, that is at par with the current consumption level in most industrialising countries. “The same study also suggested an electricity generation mix of Nuclear (two per cent); Hydro (seven per cent); Renewables (10 per cent); Coal (11per cent) and Natural Gas (70 per cent) in the long term. To achieve these goals, the NEMP recommends: Rehabilitating existing power plants and strict adherence to both preventive and turn around maintenance schedules. “Completion of all on-going energy-related projects and fast-tracking the commencement of all proposed electricity projects; Promoting the expansion of the processing sub-sector to allow for the export of value added petroleum; and, Legal and regulatory reform to provide stable and attractive investment environment.”