One of the positive fallouts of the COVID-19 pandemic is the renewed vigour for capital market investors by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) invariably to address the growing apathy by many old and prospective investors, a lot of things would change, reports, Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf One sector which has suffered an eclipse of some sort since the COVID-19 pandemic struck is the capital market as prices of stocks went downhill and lost real money value globally. Thankfully, with the gradually easing of the shocks occasioned by the global pandemic, most countries are already preparing for a post-COVID-19 recovery. Like other climes, Nigeria is not an exception judging by the initiative and well-thought out plan by the SEC. As a proof of what is to come in the sector, the Commission launched a revised version of the 10-year Capital Market Masterplan in 2022 to reflect the dynamism of the market and developments in financial technology, among others. - Advertisement - The Director-General, SEC, Mr Lamido Yuguda, gave this hint in Abuja in a New Year message that the Commission would organise a capital market conference, where the launch would be done. “The past two years have been challenging for the Nigerian capital market, which is largely a reflection of the pandemic-related unexpected challenges in global markets,” Yuguda said at a public forum in Abuja. He however expressed confidence that the results of the various initiatives implemented would begin to gradually manifest, spurring developments in many aspects of the market. According to him, as the restrictions of COVID-19 and its variants are eased up, the market will witness renewed confidence expected to introduce fresh investments from domestic and foreign investors. Yuguda said, “As we expect improvements in both economic and capital market activities, we must remain committed to developing the market in line with the 10-year master plan. “Some of the key initiatives to be pursued in 2022 are as follows: the repeal of the Investment and Securities Act 2007 and passing of the Investment and Securities Bill 2021 to align the enabling law with the realities and trends in capital market regulation and practice in Nigeria. “In conjunction with the NASD Platform, provide the necessary incentives and support to attract SMEs to get listed. Already, rules on crowdfunding to encourage new funding sources for the SMEs have been developed.” He said SEC would continue the enhancement of the existing regulatory framework guiding the operations of the market by keeping pace with the evolving changes in market practices, especially with the advent of fintech and digital assets. Yuguda said the commission would improve coordination amongst stakeholders, such as the National Assembly, Central Bank of Nigeria, National Pension Commission, Corporate Affairs Commission, National Insurance Commission, Debt Office Management and Federal Inland Revenue Service, to create synergies and further improve upon its effectiveness towards ensuring the realisation of the objectives of the capital market master plan. He also disclosed that the Commission would carry out advocacy efforts to the relevant government agencies, such as the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation and the Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources on the listing of shares of the NNPC. He said policies would be championed to incentivise companies, such as the new Dangote Refinery, to offer their shares to the public and list the shares on any of the SEC-registered platforms. He said, “The SEC will continue with the sensitisation programmes and strong capacity building initiatives on non-interest capital markets products and services in order to attract sub-nationals and corporate issuances to this market segment. “We also plan to provide extra support to the registered commodities trading platforms to complement government’s renewed diversification efforts in agriculture and carry out workshops to deepen the commodities trading ecosystem.” Yuguda highlighted the challenging task ahead and the new threats brought forth by financial technology. He said, “We all have a common interest in developing a healthy, viable and world-class capital market. At the bottom of the work we do at the SEC is investor protection. “While trying to look at the rules, we should not forget that the ultimate goal of the commission is to have a fair and transparent market that is fair to investors.” Justification for more participation at the capital market According to the SEC boss, the Commission is committed to making the capital market attractive to all Nigerians. Speaking in Abuja during a meeting with a team led by the British Deputy High Commissioner in Abuja recently, Yuguda said the Commission is implementing various initiatives to ensure that products and offerings in the market are accessible to both the young and old which will further deepen the market.   ‘How to turnaround fortunes of Nigeria’s petroleum industry’     ALA partners PMI to change lives of over 100 students     Binance Unites J Balvin, Jimmy Butler, others join big game…   Yuguda said, “The average age of that account holder was over 50, and that made us realise that the young people were not participating in this market and when young people are not participating in any market, that market is doomed to fail. “And young people today prefer to do things on their phones; if you have to fill a stack of forms manually young people won’t do it. We want to make investing in the capital market a fun experience.” According to him, the capital market experience starts with a bank account. “So we decided to look at the whole process and find out what is turning young people off. We have started the process and seen how the tech companies are providing much-needed relief to the kind of bureaucracy that happens in the capital market,” he said. Yuguda further disclosed that SEC recently approved an e-offer for MTN and expressed the excitement of the commission. He said with the e-offers, a lot of Nigerians would be happy to invest in the capital market and that would dissuade people from patronising illegal schemes. He added that the commission, in its drive to attract more people to the market, was focusing on a proper identity management system, which would also aid in the reduction of the issue of unclaimed dividends. On his part, Llewellyn-Jones discussed the need for SEC to create more alternative options for investments for all classes of people as one of the ways of pulling people away from unregulated space. “The more you can create alternative options, the easier it is to pull people away from unregulated space and that is why the Sandbox is so attractive to us and why we encourage it,” he said. Fresh N1.54tn investment to lift the capital market In what observers described as a deft economic move, the Federal Government Ministries, Departments and Agencies, especially financial services regulators are to invest N1.54tn in five years to boost liquidity in the financial services sector. According to the Federal Government National Development Plan 2021-2025, the government is planning to raise the liquidity thresholds in each segment of the financial system to the levels that will support the growth and development of the country. The investment is also expected to strategically optimise all components of the nation’s balance sheet to unlock the liquidity required to support the stability, growth and transformation of the economy. The Federal Government said it wants the total value of the payments system to be worth 500 per cent of the GDP by 2025, while the total private sector credit as a percentage of the GDP is expected to increase from 13.21 per cent to 25 percent. According to the document obtained by our correspondent, the investment of these government institutions will be leveraged to organise and support the private sector to realise the goals of the NDP. The NDP adds that private operators, such as banks, insurance companies, exchanges, and others in the various segments of the financial sector will be coordinated to invest and achieve their objectives. Expectedly, the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning; Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment; Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission; Central Bank of Nigeria; Securities and Exchange Commission, National Insurance Commission; National Pension Commission, and others have been tasked with raising the amount to raise liquidity thresholds of the financial sector over the five-year period. The NDP read in part, “Achieving the stated objectives for this sector requires huge investments coming from relevant MDAs and industry players. For instance, core ministries like the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning and the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment as well as Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission that are directly allocated capital expenditure from the budget will make investments in this sector to achieve the objectives. “This will occur at the sub-national level. Estimated total public investment to the sector during the plan period is N1.54tn. In addition, the primary regulators of each of the financial sector components will contribute to such investments. “These agencies include the Central Bank of Nigeria, Securities and Exchange Commission, National Insurance Commission, and the National Pension Commission. Operators in the financial sector will also invest to achieve the goal of the Plan for this sector. “Some of these players that are government-owned are largely the DFIs, including the Bank of Industry, Development Bank of Nigeria, Bank of Agriculture, Nigeria Export-Import Bank, Infrastructure Bank of Nigeria and Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority.” The NDP document shows that the nation will continue to leverage the support of its development partners such as the World Bank, International Monetary Funds, African Development Bank, African Finance Corporation and International Finance Corporation. According to the Federal Government, the post-COVID-19 economic recovery demands aggressive resource mobilisation for private and public sector investments, adding that a robust domestic financial sector and capital market are very critical as external investment inflows have tightened due to the broader uncertainties in the global economy. SPONSORED