The Osun State Government yesterday condemned the attack on the campaign office of the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola. Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Mrs Funke Egbemode, said in a statement that Governor Gboyega Oyetola has urged the Commissioner of Police to find the perpetrators. The statement reads: “The accusation that the government of Mr Adegboyega Oyetola had anything to do with Thursday’s attack on the Oranmiyan House is sad and laughable. “It defies reasoning that a man who has invested so much in the peace of Osun in the last three years will descend that low. “This government is united, it has all its ducks in a row. The party is also united and its status and activities have been ratified by the national secretariat. - Advertisement - “There are no reasons to join issues with anyone, let alone engaging in violent acts.   Ohanaeze: Igbo not interested in leaving Nigeria     APC inaugurates state chairmen     Buhari rebuffs lobby to shift APC convention date   “Those who are grabbing at straws to stay afloat, especially because their rebels’ den has fallen like a pack of cards, should try to fix their fortunes instead of blaming everybody, but themselves, for what has happened to them. “This government is about making Osun better and about building structures that even the unborn generation can inherit. “It will not fold its hands while those who have neither focus nor interest in the development of the state, and in building an enduring legacy, try to rubbish what this administration has achieved through the help of God and the support of the good people of Osun. “The government of the State of Osun condemns Thursday’s attack on Oranmiyan House because it is nothing close to what we represent as a people. “All those involved in the attack on Oranmiyan House will be fished out and be made to face the full wrath of the law. “The governor has charged the Commissioner of Police to fish out the perpetrators of the attack, and charge them to court immediately. “This administration will not quit its drive to rid the State of the few criminal elements that are causing troubles around.”