The spike in bank-related frauds in recent times has set many people, especially the authorities on edge as they express concerns as well as outrage over this ugly phenomenon. Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf in this report examines the underlying issues fueling banking and financial services frauds. Is your bank defrauding you? Have you fallen victim to fraud at your bank lately? How easy was your bank able to prevent you from being scammed? This barrage of questions ran riot in the mind of some Nigerians who have tasted the bitter pill of bank fraud in recent times. The devil is in the details Speaking in an interview with our correspondent, a POS merchant, who simply gave his name as Stephen, recalled that at the twilight of last year he had made some payments for some clients who immediately after cashing out came back sent went to the bank and alleged him of scamming them, a n action which forced the bank to flag his account for almost 30 days before the issue was later resolved. - Advertisement - Although the issue was reviewed in Stephen’s favour with no money deducted from his account this was not so for Basit (not real name), a bank customer whose account was used for fraudulent transaction by a third party and for which he had to serve a few months jail term. Available information has revealed that banking-related fraud peaked in 2021 as the sector recorded over N6.1 trillion alone to electronic fraud. Giving insight on the level of fraud incidence, Mr Sunday Salam-Alada, Director, Consumer Protection Department, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) while speaking at workshop for Business Editors and Finance Correspondents, organised by Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) in Benin, noted that the volume and value of e-transactions is projected to continue to increase nationally and globally. Salam-Alada, represented by Mr Ibrahim Hassan, Director, Research, Policy, International Relations Department (RPIRD) NDIC, said it was due to broader ecosystem scope, evolution of channels, adaptability to disruptive innovations and modes of payment. He said other reasons included increased inclusion and evolving technologies. The director also said that the CBN, through its Consumer Protection Department (CPD), had resolved over 13,715 complaints. Salam-Alada added that this resulted in the refund of about N72.2billion to customers by the commercial banks based on 25,043 cases of fraud in 2017. He said the amount represented a 28 per cent increase compared to 19,531 cases recorded in 2016. Salam-Alada said there was a 24 per cent reduction in actual fraud loss value in 2017 with N1.63 billion as against the 2016 figures. According to him, the statistics provided by the CBN shows there is a significant increase in the year-on-year volume and value of transactions across all payment channels in Nigeria. Consequently, 1.4 billion transactions with a value of N97.4 trillion were processed in 2017 as against 869 million transactions with a value of N69.1 trillion recorded in 2016. He said the increase of 59.7 per cent and 40.9 per cent were recorded in the volume and value of transactions in 2017. The director hinted that the CBN would soon issue a framework on consumer protection. Salam-Alada said the CPD conducted a mapping exercise of financial literacy activities in the country. He added that it was one of the achievements of the department. He said the achievements also included the biannual consumer protection compliance exams and review of the guide to banks’ charges. Dimensions of fraud in banks According to the Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System Plc (NIBSS), in the first nine months of 2020, fraudsters attempted 46,126 attacks, and they were successful on 41,979 occasions, 91 percent of the time. These numbers show that internet penetration, mobile phone usage, and agency banking activities are all increasing but the country’s financial fraud rate peaked as well. 56% of the fraud attempts were carried out using social engineering techniques. The NIBSS identified social engineering, no 2-factor authentication, PIN compromise, card/phone theft, fake assistance, and several others as the major methods for fraudulent activities. The most common was social engineering which involves manipulating people to give out confidential information and bank details. The most common is receiving text messages or emails from fraudsters pretending to be bank personnel. The next big targets were those who did not have two-factor authentication systems set up at 19 percent. Others include card theft (6 percent), phone theft (6 percent), fake assistance (5 percent), pin compromise (3 percent), robbery (1 percent) and others.   Nigeria needs more rebels to move forward – Obasanjo     APC convention: Govs split, may revolt against Buni…     2023: Those who messed up the country cannot be the solution…   Nigeria worst fraud-hit country worldwide Though fraud may not be new to the nation’s banking sector, indications are that Nigeria appears to be the worst hit by a wide margin. Most countries recorded almost no case of fraud but Nigeria saw a total fraud value of N3.3 billion in Q3’2020 compared to 499 million in the same period of 2019, according to NIBSS. According to NIBSS, a total of 48,767 persons were defrauded in the period. Of this number, people over 40-years of age fell prey to fraudsters the most, with 33.97 percent accounting for the total number of defrauded persons. Interestingly, people ranged 21 – 30 were the second most defrauded at 31 percent. Those aged 31 – 40 account for 27 percent, while people below 20 were the least defrauded with 6 percent. Also a 2020 research found three dimensions to electronic fraud in Nigeria including internal fraud carried out by banking staff; external fraud carried out by ordinary Nigerians, and collaboration between fraudsters and banking staff. Internal fraud is considered the biggest problem facing banking institutions with recent research by Temenos putting their influence at 70 percent. “Access is the most important ingredient in any bank fraud and more than anything else this means access to the IT systems that run the bank’s day-to-day operations and enable its customers to manage their accounts,” Bahru Mossa, founder/CEO, Awtar Technologies, wrote in a post. “Gaining uncontrolled access to the bank’s IT systems enables a fraudster to steal or alter sensitive information, execute illicit transactions and remove evidence of their activities. It is, of course, possible for fraudsters to break into a bank’s IT systems from outside if they are able to exploit weaknesses.” External bank fraud is the risk of unexpected financial, material, or reputational loss as the result of fraudulent activities of persons that are outside the bank. This type of fraud has been on the rise and taking many forms, including identity theft and account takeover; cyber-attack, card not present fraud, and authorised push payment scams. Experts say often some of the fraud activities go undetected because banks are afraid of reputational damage. A public admission that a bank was attacked by cybercriminals could set off panic buttons in customers who may rush to take out their funds. Over 59 million bank accounts not linked to BVNs According to Frank Ifesinachi, an anti-fraud expert, it is anybody’s guess why banking frauds are still a major feature in the banks. Citing data from the Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System Plc (NIBSS) he said record shows that the total BVN count as at January 16th 2022 has reached 52.1 million. Compared to the 111.5 million numbers of bank accounts as of May 2020, the figure shows that more than 59 million accounts remain unverified in Nigeria. The figure shows an improvement from the last report as of November last year which was put at 51.19 million depicting about 60.34 million unlinked accounts as of the period. Inferring from this, he said, Nigerians should show concern for the slow pace of adoption of the scheme which is yet to reach half of those operating a bank account in Nigeria after seven years of implementation, noting that the delay is a stumbling block to addressing issues of identity theft and reducing exposure to fraud. BVN Premium covers customers that can provide the 18 basic/ requirements for a complete BVN enrolment while the BVN Lite requires minimal documentation like name and phone number for bank customers, especially those at the rural areas that do not meet the full requirements. Speaking on the development and how it would help to position banking in Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, Governor of the central bank said, “This entails for instance to reclassify and segregate transactions that could be done on BVN. We have two classifications. The existing BVN that we have in the system has about 18 lines of information. If you are on BVN lite there is a limit to the kind of transactions you can do in terms of deposit and/ in terms of loans.” BVN was introduced in 2014 by the CBN to combat money laundering, illicit financing and duplications in the ownership of bank accounts used for fraud. Banking and financial fraud highest across the globe in new survey In the PwC’s Global Economic Crime and Fraud Survey recently, the global financial expert noted that reported incidents of fraud committed by customers, accounting fraud, anti-trust, human resources fraud, and bribery and corruption — saw big increases in the past year. A cursory view of the outcome of the survey revealed that across the globe, the banking and financial services segment recorded the highest incidences of fraud in the period. Specifically, customer-related fraud was at 27%, while cybercrime was 15% and accounting/financial statement fraud peaked at 14% giving a total of 56 per cent. According to PwC, surprisingly, customer fraud is especially prominent in the Financial Services and consumer markets sectors. This could be significant, as more industries shift to direct-to-consumer strategies. The good news, PwC stated, is that the customer segment is also one of the frauds where dedicated resources, robust processes and technology have proved effective for prevention. Cybercrime to cost the world $10.5 trillion annually by 2025 In the treatise focusing on the ripple effect of cybercrimes on the banking sub-sector, Steve Morgan, founder at Cybersecurity Ventures, revealed that cybercrime will cost the world over $10trillion loss annually by 2025. Cybersecurity Ventures expects global cybercrime costs to grow by 15 percent per year over the next five years, reaching $10.5 trillion USD annually by 2025, up from $3 trillion USD in 2015. This represents the greatest transfer of economic wealth in history, risks the incentives for innovation and investment, is exponentially larger than the damage inflicted from natural disasters in a year, and will be more profitable than the global trade of all major illegal drugs combined.   SPONSORED