The Police Service Commission (PSC) has postponed the verdict on the case involving suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police (DSP), Abba Kyari. Until he was suspended by the Commission, Kyari was the officer in charge of the Inspector General of Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT). He had earlier been indicted by a report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) of the United States in a case involving alleged internet fraudster, Hushpuppi, and was also investigated by a special panel set up by the Inspector General of Police. The Report had earlier been forwarded by the Inspector General of Police to the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice for legal advice. Not satisfied with the earlier report, PSC also directed that further necessary investigation should “take half the time it took the Police to conduct the original investigation”, adding that the investigation should be carried out by a different panel. - Advertisement - The Commission took the decision at the continuation of its14th Plenary Meeting which ended in Abuja on Thursday, and was chaired by Alhaji Musiliu Smith, a retired Inspector General of Police and Chairman of the Commission. The PSC at the plenary meeting also considered 20 pending disciplinary matters and five appeals and petitions from the Inspector General of Police and aggrieved serving and ex-police officers. According to a statement issued yesterday by the Head, Press and Public Relations of PSC, Ikechukwu Ani, the commission also considered five promotion appeals.   Controversy as Oluwo denies soliciting N20m to marry Kano…     INEC Commissioner Gumus denies APC membership, threatens…     NUT to Buhari: Assent to new retirement age bill, other…   The Commission reaffirmed its earlier decision to exonerate SP Shaaba Adamu Gboyako, a former Chief Security Officer (CSO) to former Inspector General of Police, taken at its I9th Plenary Meeting of 28th and 29th September, 2020. PSC, Ani said, was mindful of the need to safeguard its corporate image and defend its institutional integrity. It directed the Inspector General of Police to implement its decision as it affects the officer without delay. The Commission also directed that the judgment of a Kano High Court in an application for enforcement of the fundamental right to life brought by the father of one Abdulkadir Nasiru (now deceased) be forwarded to the Inspector General of Police for implementation of the orders of the court. The appellant was seeking justice for alleged torture of his son to death by the police. The appeal for accelerated/notional promotion based on merit from CSP Ita Lazarus Udom was also considered and approved by the plenary. The Commission also approved the adjustment of promotion dates of the officer from the rank of Superintendent of Police to Deputy Commissioner of Police in line with his course mates. It considered and promoted 89 staff of the Commission with a promise to ensure that staff promotion will continue to receive priority attention while they should ensure that they put in their best at all times.