The national body of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) has queried the Lagos State Council Chairman, Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya (aka MC Oluomo), over alleged insubordination and indulging in anti-union activities The letter dated February 14 by the General Secretary of the union, Alhaji Kabiru Ado Yau, accused Akinsanya of refusing to carry out directives given to him in by the national body. The letter reads: “Our attention has been drawn to the fact that despite the National Secretariat’s directives during a meeting with you and other members of the Lagos State Administrative Council (SAC) in Abuja on February 9, pertaining the appointment of Alhaji Azeez Abiola as chairman, Lagos State NURTW Tricycle Operators, you have refused to comply. Instead, you have resorted to intimidation and assault on the newly appointed tricycle chairman.” The National body added that Akinsanya refused to hand over the former NURTW Secretariat situated at Abule Egba to the tricycle caretaker committee in a bid to prevent them from using the office.   Anger in Niger Delta over Ijaw leader’s call to end…     Eight inmates regains freedom in Anambra     APC Govs to meet Buhari Tuesday over 2023 timetable   Akinsanya was also accused by the National body of using thugs to forcefully take over branches of his perceived enemies. “It is on record that you mobilised thugs to forcefully take over the operations of some local branches headed by perceived opponents. To avoid the wrath of the union, the national headquarters, directed M C Oluomo to within 48 hours hand over the former state council secretariat at Abule Egba to the newly appointed Lagos state Tricycle Committee; withdraw all those men you sent to take over the branches of your perceived opponents and submit a written apology to the national secretariat. “Failure to comply with the foregoing directives will leave the National Secretariat with no option other than to take disciplinary action against you in line with the provisions of the union’s constitution,” the letter reads. Speaking with The Nation, Akinsanya said the letter got to his office on Friday (February 25) as against February 14. “I was not around when the letter was delivered on Friday. I will be in office tomorrow to look at the content and respond appropriately. I will also avail you (The Nation) my response. Thank you,”Akinsanya told The Nation.