Drug abuse is a serious problem in the country. Youths are the worst culprits. Thus, it  poses a grave challenge to public health and security. Around 275 million people used drugs worldwide in 2020, while over 36 million people suffered from drug use disorders, according to the 2021 World Drug Report, released in June 2021 by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). As the 2018 National Drug Use Survey revealed, in Nigeria at that time there were around 14.3 million drug users of which close to 3 million suffered from a drug use disorder. The document gives a damning account of rising drug use in Nigeria, noting that as of the time of the research, 14.3 million Nigerians aged between 15 and 64 years engaged in drug use. According to the report, instead of the expected 11 per cent increase in the global number of drug users by 2030, the projection is 40 per cent in Nigeria and the whole of Africa. The World Health Organization (WHO) in a report said cannabis remains the most widely used illicit substance in the Africa. The highest prevalence and increase in use is being reported in West and Central Africa with rates between 5.2 per cent and 13.5 per cent. Amphetamine-type stimulants (ATS) such as “ecstasy” and methamphetamine now rank as Africa’s second most widely abused drug type. Statistics by UNODC revealed that the country’s  Southwest zone had a prevalence of 22.4 per cent drug users in 2017, followed by the Southsouth 16.6 per cent, Southeast 13.8 per cent, Northeast 13.6 per cent, Northwest 12 per cent, and North Central 10 per cent. The lifetime consumption of cannabis as well as psychotropic substances like benzodiazepines and amphetamine-type stimulants, were  the least consumed in both urban and rural areas in 2017. That same year, drug abuse appeared to be more common among males (25.2 per cent)  than females (approximately 8per cent)and the age range of first use was 10 to 29 years. The burden of drug abuse is on the rise and becoming a public health concern. Nigeria,  the most populous country in Africa, has developed a reputation as a centre for drug use mostly among  youths. This scourge has continued to increase and is now prevalent in schools across the country. A 2021 research obtained by CAMPUS LIFE revealed that a prevalence of 20–40 per cent and 20.9 per cent  of drug abuse was reported among students and youths, respectively. Commonly abused drugs include cannabis, cocaine, amphetamine, heroin, diazepam, codeine, cough syrup and tramadol. On Thursday, Feb 9, Chairman of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Brig.-Gen. Mohammed Buba Marwa (retd.), urged all tertiary institutions in the country to make drug integrity tests an institutional policy for new and returning students. This,he said, would curb drug abuse. Speaking at  the University of Abuja,he  warned that the nation faced a grim future over the rate of drugs prevalence among youths wondering, “what will become of Nigeria with about 70 per cent youth population if the future of its youths is ravaged by drugs.” He said: “The Drug Integrity Test is anticipated to metamorphose into an anti-drug policy for all higher institutions of learning in Nigeria.” Marwa also launched a War Against Drugs Abuse (WADA) club at UNIABUJA. Students who spoke to CAMPUS LIFE expressed concerns over the intake of drugs among  students. Some lauded  the initiative,while  others craved   successful implementation  of  the policy. Sefui Kehinde, a Mass Communication at the Lagos State University of Science and Technology (LASUSTECH), said the initiative was long overdue. “ This policy  is overdue and should have been done long ago, because if we look at  schools today, many students are into drug use. The rate at which students consume drugs is alarming. They take alcohol and cannabis. In fact, marijuana is the most popular, hardly will you see a male student these days who doesn’t smoke. Most of them use drug called ‘molly’, they do blend it and wrap it in a milo sachet. “ So NDLEA making that move to me is nice. It is high time the society knew what exactly is happening in schools. Most parents don’t know what their wards are doing and they hardly visit them in school,” he said.   FG, States, LGAs shares N574.668bn in January 2022     Court okays forfeiture of Okorocha’s Abuja property     Davido slams Gov Makinde, says no one can arrest me   Agbelusi Samuel, a student at Adekunle Ajasin University (AAUA), Akungba-Akoko, praised the NDLEA for the policy. He stressed that the policy would end up reducing drug intake in schools and the society. “ It is a welcome development, it will reduce the rate as which drugs are been abused on campuses and generally in the society and also it will help  government agencies to  know how they can regulate harmful drugs,” he said. For Saint Omujieze, a student at Abraham Adesanya Polytechnic (AAP), students should be sensitised about the policy before implementation. He also  expressed fears over the tendency that institutions might leverage it to extort students. “ It is  good but I think the government needs to set up an event or seminar to enlighten students more about the drug test. The drug test would reduce the high rate of drug abuse in Nigeria but I hope they don’t use it to extort students daily. It will surely affect students, especially those that are drug addicts,” he said. Olamiju Tomiwa, a Mass Communication student at AAP, suggested that the test should be done regularly as it’d help reduce cultism and other social vice. His words:” I support and think it is a very good move by the NDLEA. It will help in admitting sane minds that will not cause rumpus  in  school. It will practically help in reducing cultism in schools and bring about more awareness on the dangers of drugs to youths.” “The test should be a regular thing to all students, maybe it should be done per semester or yearly,”  he said. Adulrasheed Akere, a student at Usmanu Danfodiyo University Sokoto(UDUS) told CAMPUS LIFE that many secrets would be exposed in different tertiary institutions if the policy is eventually implemented. “ Many students die for one absurd reason or the other. This is also a way to identify those students involved in cultism. If the programme is properly facilitated, it will reveal many secrets of students, which will help to curb bad gangs in schools. Also, some students misuse drugs, in  the course of reading for examination;  they venture into taking some hard drugs like caffeine to make them strong and awake while reading for examination,” he said. Dr Hope Omeiza, President, Vanguard Against Drug Abuse (VGADA), a non-governmental organisation,said the drug integrity test about to be introduced by the NDLEA may lead to truancy among students. He noted that for the policy to be achieved, the drug agency needs a good approach. Vanguard Against Drug Abuse (VGADA) is involved in activities aimed at  preventing and treating  drug abuse. Some of these activities include, rallies, road walks, radio talk shows, school seminars, outreaches, family drug education programmes, among others. “ It is a commendable one as it may lead to more students desisting from drug abuse as they do not want to be punished. On the other hand, it may also lead to truancy among students who are not ready or willing to desist. So, I think the key is for NDLEA to apply a balance with this approach and we hope for a favorable result,” he said. He attributed the prevalence of drug abuse among youths to peer influence, social media influence, curiosity, easy access to drugs, poor parental supervision, problems in the home, and the desire to try out new things. “ Drug addiction and abuse is a problem that has been around for ages and has spanned through generations. However, its prevalence has been noted to be on the exponential rise due to some or all of the following factors; peer influence, social media influence, curiosity and the need to try out new things, easy access to  drugs, poor parental supervision as well as problems in the home,” he said. While speaking on the way out of this menace, he said the government at all levels need to partner with Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) and Non-Governmental Organisations and the media to curb the menace. His words: “There is no one single approach to addressing drug abuse and addiction, however, some of my suggestions would include more partnership of the government at all levels with CSOs and NGOs who are involved in the work against drug abuse, more robust detailed programmes against drug abuse should be put out on mass media and content favouring drug addiction should be censored, families should be educated so that they, in turn, can monitor their wards, also more favourable environment that ensures youths are gainfully engaged should be created by the government.” A Lagos-based Human Rights lawyer, Festus Ogun, has supported the NDLEA call for a drug integrity test to be introduced in tertiary institutions across the federation. He noted that a lot of young people are already addicted to drugs, highlighting that drug offenders risk 14 years in prison, according to the NDLEA act. “ It is a crime under our law, division of section 20 on the NDLEA act. Drug abuse is an offence in the NDLEA act and it  attracts a punishment that ranges from life imprisonment to 14 years in prison depending on the circumstances of each case. I believe drug test policy should be brought to schools because a lot of our young people are drug addicts. Most of them are influenced by alcohol, almost everywhere, Colorado, Canadian Loud and  a lot of them. “ There is a need for us to have a comprehensive drug test policy in schools and there is need for the sincerity of purpose of and intention on the part of the authorities in implementing the drug law. Apart from bringing the drug test policy to schools, authorities must ensure  the laws are implemented,” he said. While noting the significance of the drug integrity test, he said it would be a lifesaver for young people and the future of the country “ We have a very fine law in respect of drug abuse and drug trafficking, which is the NDLEA act. However, are they truly enforced in the real sense of it? “I think it makes a lot of sense for the drug test policy to be brought to schools and it will indeed contribute  towards reducing the level at which young people who should be more focused about their life and career take illicit drugs. It is very damaging, not just to  them,  but to  their career. Introducing it will be a lifesaver not just for the young people but for the future of our country,” he said.