Edo Police Command last night disclosed that N34, 510,000 was recovered from fleeing armed robbers who Thursday evening,  attacked four commercial banks at Uromi, headquarters of Esan Northeast Local Government Area of the state. The command, in a press statement titled: “Recovery of Abandoned Vehicles/Other Items Used in Uromi Bank Robbery” revealed that the money was recovered from the abandoned operational vehicles used by the armed robbers at a bush in neighbouring Ubiaja, Esan Southeast LGA. The statement signed by the  Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bello Kontongs, a Superintendent  of Police (SP), noted that when police received the information about the abandoned vehicles and money, the command immediately mobilised its men and in conjunction with members of the local vigilance and a traditional ruler from Ubiaja, swiftly moved to the scene. The statement stated: “On 25/02/2022, at about 0730, operatives of the Edo State Police Command, in conjunction with local vigilance members, accompanied by Chief John Odijie, the Oniha of Ubiaja, led by the DPO, Ubiaja, acting on credible information that some vehicles suspected to have been used by armed robbers  in the  Uromi bank robbery operations on the 24/02 /2022 were seen hidden in Oruen Quarters bush of Ubiaja in Esan Southeast LGA of Edo State. “On receipt of the information, the Divisional Police Officer in charge of Ubiaja mobilised his  men who during the bank robbery operations blocked  all the exit routes from in and out of Uromi town, together with the team immediately mobilised to the location and recovered the following vehicles and items: One red Camry car with Reg. No. EZA 105 KJA, One ash Camry Car with Reg. No. KWL 19 DU, One Dark Ash Corolla car with Reg. No. UBJ 734 SZ, One Lexus 330 car with Reg. No. AAA 973 FL, One Red Q. Link M/CYCLE With Reg. No. EZA 105 QN, one Red Day Long M/Cycle With Reg. No. ENU 204 QL, two small bags containing women items, one Union Bank ATM card and cash sum thirty four million, five hundred and ten thausan Naira only ( #34,510,000.00).” The Edo Police spokesman also quoted the state’s Commissioner of Police, Phillip Ogbadu, as symphatising with the families of those who lost their lives in the unfortunate incident, while promising not to relent until all the people behind the attacks were brought to face the full wrath of the law. Meanwhile, Edo Governor Godwin Obaseki, yesterday described the Uromi robbery as well organised, while suing for calm. Obaseki stated this when he led other top Edo government functionaries for an on-the-spot assessment of the scene of the robbery. Obaseki, who was represented by his deputy, Philip Shaibu, was accompanied by heads of security agencies and was taken on the assessment of the affected banks by the Area Commander of Uromi Police headquarters, Tarzan Tsav.   Constitution Review: Bill seeks to make Senate President,…     Gunmen kill three, kidnap two in Anambra night raid     Mahdi Gusau’s slow motion impeachment   The governor pleaded with the people of Uromi to go about their normal businesses, while assuring that the state government had beefed up security and surveillance to ensure that peace was restored in the area. He said: “The attack is a well-organised crime. We have heard from the people and have increased surveillance in the area. We are here on behalf of the governor to find out what happened and know the extent of the damage. “We are here on a fact-finding mission and have interacted with bank officials, eye witnesses, traders and people living in the area and seen the level of destruction and the damage done. “I am here with all the security chiefs and have seen the damage and beefed up security in the area. I urge all the people living in the area to go about their normal businesses. The entourage also visited the palace of the Ojuromi of Uromi, King Anslem Odaloighe, Eidenojie Il. Addressing the traditional ruler, the governor said: “We have come to see the level of damage and assure you that the state government has increased surveillance and safety of the people of Uromi. “By the grace of God, these people will be arrested and brought to book. The people should go about their normal businesses.” The royal father, in his response, said: “The situation was like a war zone, and it lasted for over two hours and the robbers took control of the area and killed my subjects.” The entourage also visited the Nigeria Police Force, Uromi Command, which was also attacked by the robbers to demobilise the officers before the robbery, while the team also visited the hospital where the injured victims were being treated.