The best will happen to and in Nigeria in 2023 and beyond, Oba of Lagos Rilwan Akiolu has said. He spoke when the State Commander of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) Calys Alumona visited his palace. The monarch was perhaps reacting to statements credited to former Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, who said ‘to be honest, this country, we are living on extra time. In 2015, we were in a deep hole. In 2023, we will be in an even deeper hole than in 2015’. Akiolu urged Sanusi to pray for Nigeria rather than speak negativity. The royal father promised that the state traditional council would partner the NDLEA and other stakeholders to wage war against substance abuse. - Advertisement - He, however, harped on the Federal Government to motivate small businesses to thrive so the economy can prosper while also equipping the NDLEA and other security agencies, adequately, to perform optimally. He also advocated improved welfare packages for officers of the law.   Toxic fuel: Victor Osuagwu ‘orders’ EFCC to…     Ekiti 2022: Bamidele makes U-turn on challenging APC guber…     Oluwo denies seeking financial assistance for marriage   Akiolu also admonished parents to inculcate the right values in their children from infancy so they can keep to the discipline as they move along in life. According to him, checking drug abuse is a collective effort so schools, religious bodies, community associations must work together to spread the message. The monarch was also decorated as ambassador of war against drug abuse, and he promised to do more to fight the menace. Alumona said he was at the palace to receive royal blessings and solicit support towards prosecuting the war against drug abuse, especially at the grassroots. He lamented that the rising ritual killings among the youths is aided by drug abuse, adding that drug is not essential to life but a killer. The state commander hinted that the agency will launch a campaign against drug abuse to intimate the people of the dangers inherent in drug abuse. This, he said, would be done in collaboration with the state government, Ministry of Education and traditional institution.