The disastrous attempt to recruit police constables by the office of the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and the Police Service Commission (PSC) shows the tragedy of the present police structure in Nigeria. While the quarrel between the duo over who has power to recruit policemen is a distraction the country can ill-afford, the report that 90% of the applicants failed to secure up to 30% in the recruitment test says a lot about the quality of persons wishing to join the Nigeria police. Perhaps, but for the controversy which aroused public interest in the recruitment process, the applicants would have been recruited without much ado. Most of the applicants, some say, paid their way to be on the list, and of course, the mass failure is a reflection of the quality of those who usually get recruited into the police. Is it not likely that the quality of present applicants is not different from those who succeeded in the previous recruitment exercises? Most likely. For many commentators, it is such recruitment process that threw up the once celebrated super cop, DCP Abba Kyari and his likes that are now facing sundry criminal allegations. As the saying goes, if gold can rust, how much more iron. DCP Kyari, despite the strong allegations of strong-arm tactics and professional misconduct that trailed his career, was promoted and given rare honours by the political elites who of course were beyond the repercussions of his acts of professional misconducts. Spurred by such ill-conceived recognitions, DCP Kyari saw himself as untouchable regardless of his actions. While facing a criminal indictment and potential extradition to the United States of America, over aiding and abetting international fraudsters, he according to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) continued his aiding and abetting trait in the narcotics underworld. Remorseless as it were, Kyari’s inherent trait of using his office to promote crime in the country has manifested in several dimensions. Some have argued that if a random test of traits of criminality is conducted on the entire police force, the result would be as disastrous as that of the recent recruitment exercise. The argument being that many members of the police force aid and abet criminality as part of their work schedule. While such potential huge number of criminality in the force is arguable, there is no doubt that the quality of policing across the country, is a manifestation of the poor recruitment process. - Advertisement - As data analysts would put it, garbage in, garbage out. In essence, it is the quality of recruits into the force that has manifested in the kind of police officers and men we have. Of course, the police structure we run, allows persons who are completely alienated from the outcome of the recruitment exercises, to recruit the police men, under a centralised police force, legalised by a so-called federal constitution. It is this warped system that attracts mainly the poorly educated to apply to join the police. It is instructive that many states could not fill their quota in the recruitment exercise, and obviously it is the states with better educated population and better alternative opportunities that failed to show up in large numbers for the recruitment exercise. A recruitment exercise that attracts the least educated and least prepared in life should worry our policy makers if they care about the country. As things are, Nigeria is poorly policed, and it would be unmanageable tragedy if the few hands recruited are mainly dullards.   Toxic leadership     Electoral Act for Nigeria     Restorative justice   So, our policy wonks must impress on the political leadership the urgent need to change the police structure in other to attract quality applicants. We cannot keep employing the dregs of our society into our police force and expect a better policing. Those who hold the view that the centralised policing structure can be tweaked through the so-called community policing should see that the gimmick is not working. The monster of insecurity in rural areas is not satiated by the highly promoted community policing. In my rural community, Imezi-Owa, in Ezeagu Local Government Area of Enugu State, the police post has been shut down since the advent of the unknown gun-men in parts of the southeast region. Similar shut-downs have become the norm is several rural communities where the few policemen that man the rural police posts have become soft targets for the bandits that have taken over our rural communities. Obviously, because of the centralised command of the police structure, the local authorities including the state command would continue to wait on Abuja to determine how to deal with the situation. I bet that if the state and indeed the local governments have powers to recruit police at their levels, the abandonment of policing in rural communities would not be the case, as we see across the country. Instead of being conquered by fear, the states which now rely on sundry groups with no legal rights to bear arms, except as approved by the president or IGP, would employ their own police, train and equip them to deal with the menace. Perhaps, it is necessary to conduct a comparative analysis of the quality of persons who apply to join the quasi-police structures across the states in the country, and those who applied for the recent police recruitment exercise, so as to appreciate the underlining challenges. If applicants for states’ quasi-police, like Amotekun, Ebubeagu, state traffic control corps, and similar others, attract more qualified persons than the federal police, then, those in-charge of the federal police should be very concerned. Should that be the case, what it implies is that despite the advantages attached to being a federal policeman, recognised by the constitution, as the only police in the country, with guaranteed authority to bear arms, with better assurances of payment of salaries, with other better privileges, attract lower grades of persons than the state quasi-police. In an address, the chairman of the PSC Alhaji Musliu Smith, appreciated the gravity of the challenge as regards the quality of applicants, when he said: “this is a sad reflection of the calibre of officers that will be patrolling our communities in the event that these persons actually end up enlisted in the police. Perhaps owing to disenchantment with the police, the inability of citizens to appreciate the value of police and policing has further impacted the quality of persons applying to work in the force.” While he understands the challenge facing the recruitment of quality police personnel, there are no signs that right steps are being taken to address those challenges. As a former IGP, Smith is in a good position to advise the federal government to change the paradigm, for the good of our country. SPONSORED