Ahead of the 2023 general elections, a group within the All Progressives Congress, APC, the Believer & Advocate for Rotational Agreement from Akoko North West/ East, has called on the people of the federal constituency to gird their loins to defend the age-long tradition of rotating their representatives between the two local government areas. Their call is coming on the heels of rumours that the member representing the federal constituency in the House of Representatives is planning to take a shot at another term. In their statement, tagged, clarion call, the group called on all the first-class monarchs in the constituency to intervene in the matter. The statement reads, “My people in Akoko North East, this is a clarion call to draw your attention to some cogent facts regarding the issue of the House of Representatives seat.   INEC meets Edo stakeholders, urges massive turnout for…     100 youths for induction into Southwest NACCIMA     Kano sets up committee to fix new retirement age for…   It’s a well-known fact that  Akoko North West was created from Akoko North East, meaning that, North East gave birth to the North West. As far as APC is concerned in our Federal Constituency, Akoko NorthWest is well favoured in terms of position; North West with 10 wards has two Assembly seats, while North East with 13 Wards has only one, which is being occupied by the opposition.” - Advertisement - The group, in supporting its claims, explained that since the inception of the present dispensation in 1999, the position of the constituency’s representative in the national assembly has been rotated between the two local government areas irrespective of political party affiliation. It warned the APC that an attempt to impose a candidate on the people will backfire, citing past examples. “We would like to remind the leaders of our dear party that past efforts to scuttle this beautiful arrangement of rotating the position between Akoko North East and Akoko North West local government areas have resulted in failure for the candidate. The result will not be different this time around. “As APC members, we are worried and concerned that our dear party may fall for the same trap that led to the fall of other parties who attempted to impose their candidates on the people, believing that the power from above is bigger than the people. Losing this precious position to the opposition in 2023 will be a shame, particularly to those of us who have laboured to build the party in the federal constituency.”