What do you think of Nigeria’s export activities in terms of global acceptance? First, I specialise in Africa. I spent about 36 years of my life in the region. Nigeria, for instance, has a company in charge of exportation and they are responsible for the exportation of Nigeria’s products to other countries and all of these products are welcomed in other regions. However, I realised that there are countries that do not have Nigeria’s products and this is an avenue for me to take this opportunity to encourage manufacturers on how to export their goods. I also encourage Nigeria to introduce us to their exporting authorities. It is not the case that they are not working but in comparison with the size of the country. How does technology come to play in this aspect of exportation? Technology plays out when we export readily finished products, simply put, the processing aspect. For instance, Agriculture products in Nigeria do not require high technology but only demand clean processing. We get to use technology in the process of packaging goods too. Hence, Nigeria must ensure its products’ quality meets global standards. - Advertisement - As a senior export trainer, what is your level of relationship with people across other countries? I have worked in several regions of the world such as Europe, the Middle East and Africa. I was admitted by a private company sponsored by the government to organise a seminar. While there, they brought many exporters and businessmen to attend the seminar. I made them understand how to export the resources they have such as essential Oil. In the course of the programme, a participant asked if I could come to his company for either one or two days to mentor his people and also help him market his products. So, I have a smooth relationship with persons and institutions across the world.   Nigeria to boost trade volume through ECOWAS TPOs     Vince Offer stirs up infomercial     Steps on how to trade bitcoin in 2021   You run an export academy, what does it have to offer and what makes it stand out? Basically, we are an export academy with two scopes; training and marketing. We offer our services to businessmen and Exporters. We are 36 years experience with references in 86 countries. Personally, I travel a lot to teach people as this is what I love doing. I speak French, Arabic, English, German and Italian. Additionally, the Chamber of Commerce here calls me to come to train their members from time to time. And this has helped our reputation as customers might decide to ask about us from the Chamber of Commerce. We organise seminars for groups and individuals. The company starts from why and how to export. The first question we ask them is; why do you want to export? We expect responses like “My product is good”. Then we pose the question; do you have ideas on how to export? Apparently, they have come to meet us because they have zero background knowledge about it. There are so many competitors out there but we ensure to put our customers with nice products in the forefront. What are the hurdles the company has faced so far? The challenges start especially from customers in Africa. First, we try to make them understand that it is easy to export. We build them to follow what we teach them but the problem arises from payment. They find it hard to pay after signing the necessary documents. However, we need them to know that we are flexible to negotiate such. Also, we do the necessary follow up after payment. We are delighted when customers are able to reach their goals What certification/accreditation does the academy have? We don’t place value on certificates here in Germany. We are only certified by our ministry. The law here is very strong. After submitting our CV and paying a certain amount to the German authorities, they grant us authorisation after accessing our competency, durability and reputation.  Over here, we deal with the general. If any company comes for training, we train them in groups and subsequently, we continue the training individually. Yes, people will get value for what they are paying for. We will teach them how to export to this country, the required documents and how to communicate culturally with these customers. Also, do proper follow up for three months and can as well be extended to six months upon extra payment.