National Board For Technical Education (NBTE) has granted full accreditation to 11 courses at Nasarawa State Polytechnic, now Isa Mustapha AGWAI I polytechnic Lafia. According to a press statement released to our correspondent yesterday in Lafia, signed by the rector of the institution, Dr Justina Kotso, the accreditation visitation team conducted an exercise in the Polytechnic between 6th-10th December, 2021. The statement read: “Following the conduct of the exercise, the National Board For Technical Education (NBTE) has forwarded its report on the outcome of the exercise. “The Board has granted full Accreditation for 5 years to the Institution for the following Programmes with effect from 2021/2022 session “HND Business Administration and Management, HND Public Administration, HND Accountancy, ND Social Development,  ND Statistics, HND Leisure and Tourism, HND Science Laboratory Technology/Microbiology option   2023 Presidency: Coalition demands power shift to South     Ignore region, focus on performance in 2023, Patriotic…     One escapes death as car flies off Jabi Bridge in Abuja   - Advertisement - Others include HND Hospitality Management, ND Library and Information Science, ND Mass Communication, HND Urban and Regional Planning. The rector said, the board has equally granted interim accreditation for 1 year to the institution for the following programmes with effect from 2021/2022 session subject to verification of the visitation for full accreditation in ND Architectural Technology and HND Estate Management and Valuation According to her, the board has granted approval to the institution to offer the following Programmes with specified number of streams with effect from 2021/2022 session as follows ND Electrical/Electronic Engineering Technology, HND Science Laboratory Technology/Chemistry option and ND Library and Information Science. “The Isa Mustapha Agwai I Polytechnic, Lafia, wishes to thank and appreciate His Execellency, Engr. Abdullahi A. Sule, Executive Governor of Nasarawa State and Visitor to the Polytechnic for the magnanimity of release of required funds for the exercise and for his personal encouragement and morale boosting inspection visits to the Polytechnic, which contributed immensely to achieving this feat in the history of the Polytechnic. The Polytechnic also appreciates the Governing Council, under the Chairmanship of His Royal Highness (Dr) Sani Mohammed Bako III, (Emir of Karshi) for the support and enabling environment.” The Rector thanked and  appreciated the Executive Secretary, National Board For Technical Education (NBTE) Prof. Idris Bugaji, Executive Secretary TETFund, Prof. Suleiman Bogoro, NBTE Resource persons, members of the Management, Academic Board, Deans, Heads of Departments, Staff and Students and indeed other stakeholders for their immense goodwill, support and hard work towards the overall success of the Accreditation exercise.