THE National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has recovered over N130 billion and drugs from users and individuals involved in narcoutic substance abuse in Nigeria in the last one year. Besides the amount, the agency said it arrested 12, 306 arrests and facilitated conviction for 1,367 persons in the last one year. The agency said it achieved the seizure of 3.4 million kilogrammes of illicit substances, including cannabis, cocaine, codeine, heroin, and tramadol in the period under review. Its Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, Brig-Gen, Mohammed Buba Marwa, stated this at the graduation of beneficiaries of Christ Against Drug Abuse Ministry at the Enoch & Folu Adeboye Rehabilitation Centre, Araga, Epe, Lagos. He said the NDLEA is taking the drug war seriously because the World Drug Report has projected that 40 percent of increase in drug use will be recorded in Africa by 2030. This he said, informed the agency’s strategy of initiating preventive and early warning measures such as drug integrity test, revitalization of drug free clubs in schools and seamless community focused advocacy to engender the anti- drug culture in families, schools and every workplace in the country. The NDLEA, Marwa said, adopted the integrity test as a policy in schools and public institutions. He said: “This confidential test will help in identifying those who are abusing drugs and get them to commit to a treatment plan. We are happy that the policy is gaining traction.   Nigeria loses $40b to foreign ship owners in three years     Coca-Cola Zero Sugar rebranded     ‘Monthly imports from China totalled $628m’   Speaking further, Marwa the NDLEA continues to pursue the drug control effort. otherwise known as Drug Demand Reduction which includes mitigating activities not limited to counselling, care, treatment, rehabilitation and integration of drug users. He said: “Within this spectrum, we have partnership with faith based organizations and other private sector players complementing the efforts of the NDLEA. In 2021, the NDLEA successfully counselled and rehabilitated 7, 761 drug users in its facility. Meanwhile, 31 persons who underwent treatment and rehabilitation for substance use disorder have graduated from the CADAM centre in Araga, Epe. The set of 50 graduates from the centre were provided with intensive treatment services for drug addiction. During their one year stay at the facility they were exposed to acquiring different vocational skills including information communication technology, tailoring, leatherworks, shoe-making, barbing, and other skills. The empowerment programme, the centre said, would go a long way in ensuring they become productive citizens post-rehabilitation. CADAM Chairman, Board of Trustees, Mr Tony Aletor said for over 30 years the organisation has been assisting people suffering from substance disorder. He said over 3,000 people had gone through rehabilitation treatment.