Let us search for Legacy Projects to lay at the illustrious feet of the Olubadan-elect and Governor Seyi Makinde and all governors and traditional rulers nationwide amidst youth summits, youth festivals aimed at urgently uplifting the youth and turning them away from becoming thugs, area boys-and-girls, and touts on drugs while politicians’ families are safe and sound and instead elevate them into productive law-abiding young upwardly mobile citizens by the end of 2022 to keep them as vital voters and not violent vote-and-election disrupters and destroyers in the 2023 elections. Stop expensive, repetitive and often unproductive youth events which are so often ‘full of sound and fury…signifying nothing’ for the youth. The return of two Benin Bronze artifacts, value £2.5m but priceless to the history of The Benin Kingdom, to the Oba of Benin should remind Nigeria of the many Legacy Projects still outstanding. Beyond the 1897 Punitive Raid on Benin, exile of Oba Ovonramwen to Calabar where he died in 1914 and the manifest malignant cruelty of colonialism and slavery, it should remind us of the neglected value of museums, ancient and modern. Worldwide ‘A PICTURE IS WORTH 1000 WORDS except to Nigeria’s educational leadership. Yes, Nigeria has many old often dilapidated  ‘Ancient’ museums but why does it lack ‘Modern’ museums expounding the needed treasures of STEM Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics, Robotics etc.   Curbing unwholesome practices of real estate developers in…     How APC’s planned February 26 convention was scuttled     We’re not land grabbers, says monarch   In 2000 Educare Trust created the first ‘Educare Trust STEM Exhibition’ in Nigeria in the Goshen/Coco Cola building in Sango Ibadan. We hoped others would follow but corporate support was zero. Such STEM museums and exhibitions must be permanent as they are required to encourage and reinforce learning and fire the imagination of Nigeria’s teeming youth to greater dreams and actual scientific heights. - Advertisement - Fortunately, Ibadan is blessed with much multi-subject health, science, agricultural and artistic high profile institutions each a legacy project in its own right. Nigeria is now awash with fashionable but functionless gardens and parks-empty legacy projects. Sadly, children learn little in such places where a visit often leaves a ‘GAP’ in their brains even though running around may bring good to their bodies. A visit to a STEM museum or exhibition if built, or ‘tented’ in the same gardens and parks in Lagos, Abuja, Ibadan, Port Harcourt or anywhere, will change learning, making it visual, fun, exciting and competitive – just like worldwide where museums and exhibitions are cornerstones of the education process, formal during school and informal during holiday. I have visited hundreds of such inspirational centres in the UK, US, India and the MTN’s Cape Town Science Centre to see what wonders were on display to inspire the children and youth of South Africa. I and Educare Trust failed repeatedly to get MTN chief executive at the time to authorise a similar centre in Nigeria ‘because no one else, except you, is asking for it’. For years I tried over 50 top corporations, all with deep pockets, literally begging them to do their own corporate thematic museum or participate with others. Zero result. We do not even have an aquarium though we have 853km coastline. Ask why we do not have Cadbury or Nestle Chocolate or Food Museum, Dangote or Lafarge Construction Museum, MTN or Glo Communication Museum, A Forestry Museum, A Total/ MRS/ Petroleum Museum, An NPA/ Ocean Museum, A Military Museum/ Exhibition etcetera. The work done on the Yar’Adua Museum, Abuja shows what Nigerians can do when they wanted to and money was made available -corporately or government. Yes, there are a few museums and zoos here and there, but there is room for 1000 museums and exhibitions for our population to bring STEM to our children, wherever they live. Most of the over 75 departments in the University of Ibadan know the value of visuals and posters and have mini-museums of relevant exhibits. Why not let all youth, especially Ibadan youth, benefit by having a large University of Ibadan Museum/Exhibition permanently open to capture the minds of our youth?  Ditto every university nationwide should see it as a duty to display its scholarly materials -rocks, bones, specimens, instruments, machinery, experiments as a Career Guidance Weapon for Youth Development, and to improve the career choice opportunities available to our youth. Governor Makinde and Olubadan-elect can come together for an ‘IBADAN MUSEUM/EXHIBITION LEGACY PROJECT’ and find the land and build the structure and invite local UCH, UI, IITA, CRIN, FRIN, IAR&T, the Polytechnic and other institutions like Nigerian Space Agency, Airport Authority and sundry corporate bodies -big and small- to support and let the collective hundreds of departments each take up a subsection 10-25metres of the museum/exhibition to be filled with ‘WHAT WE DO’ or ‘VISIT OUR EDUCATIONAL AND INFORMATION VISUAL GEMS’. A visit to such a place will fill the emptiest of youth and child heads with dreams and determination to succeed and hopefully shun bad and murderous behaviour. Providing for the youth is an opportunity for the leadership who take their own children to the thousands of museums and exhibitions worldwide. The intellect for the execution is here. Time to act, please. Perhaps Agodi Gardens or Trans Amusement Park can be negotiated with. We lost the opportunity of using the Samonda Airport for this amazing project choosing a housing estate and shops over the good of the youth.  It is not too late to ‘Choose a Legacy Project for your Youth’ before it is too late.