It appeared the perfect scandal, which titillates the media and make them salivate for more: a state aircraft abandoned for nine years in a foreign hangar with absolutely no documentation, oozing a thick stench of sleaze. But look more closely: you would see the gambit to rally public approval to spend €3 million, on at best, a controversial; at worst, a  dubious cause, despite the scarce resources of Rivers State. That about captures the latest red herring from Wike’s Rivers, using the governor’s predecessor as battling ram to harvest public sympathy.  Yet, none of the three Rivers governments involved in this mess can mount any high moral ground. Dr. Peter Odili, former Rivers governor (1999-2007), in 2003, bought an airplane now dubbed Legacy 600 jet. Chubuike Rotimi Amaechi, now transport minister but former Rivers governor (2007-2015), bought another, but shipped the old plane to Germany “for repairs and refurbishment; and then to be sold to generate revenue for critical projects in the state”, in the words of Tolofari George, Governor Amaechi’s transport commissioner. Ezenwo Wike (governor from 2015 till now) just regained the plane; but alleged that before now, his government had no knowledge where the plane was.  But to keep the records straight: if Amaechi sent the plane to Germany in 2012, his government accounted for only three out of the nine years that the plane had been there.  The Wike government accounts for six years. - Advertisement - If Amaechi bought a new plane to replace Odili’s old one; and Wike now scrambles to recover the old plane, the three governments must find buying a plane a worthy asset. So, none of them can boast a high moral ground, which could issue from asserting that buying a state plane was wrong priority. Still, why is the plane “Legacy”?  Was it the first to be rolled off the aircraft production lines of Rivers State?  Or the “Legacy” is because the Rivers governor presumes his personal comfort equates that of the grilling Rivers masses that voted him?  ”Legacy” here is clearly an emotive tag that means nothing to the Rivers masses, whose collective sweat funded the two aircraft.   Hemorrhage     Typically NLNG     Rat-tled   Now, to the allegation of dumping the plane in Germany without documentation, as Governor Wike himself claimed.  George rejected that with own counter-claim that he included the plane, and where it was, in his handover note, as Amaechi’s transport commissioner, when they left office in 2015. Read Also: Don’t blame Wike for our disunity, say Ogoni leaders But Paul Nsirim, Wike’s information and communications commissioner, doubled down on the Wike claim. But instead of calling on his peer in the Rivers transport ministry to frontally deny or confirm George’s claim, Nsirim went on a binge of emotions: how Amaechi did not want to hand over to Wike, after the 2015 elections! Pray, what has that got to do with a yes or no answer to a specific claim? Both sides, to be sure, are making claims and counter-claims.  Still, the George allegations of past bad faith, involving the Odili aircraft; and hoopla over the licensing of the one Amaechi bought, and how the Wike government had, on both, darkly hinted at possible theft of state assets, do not seem to strengthen the Wike claims, beyond the governor’s trademark hectoring. As propaganda begets propaganda, someone, somewhere hit on the allegation that Wike badly wanted the second plane back because of campaigns for the 2023 elections. But the Rivers People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has poured cold water on such suppositions, speaking through Tambari Gbara, its publicity secretary. Meanwhile, George claimed Governor Amaechi trotted the plane to Germany for repairs and after which “the plane was to be sold off because it was more economical to sell it off.”  What is the Wike government’s policy justification for spending €3 million on this plane — to sell it off too?  Or to maintain a two-plane fleet for the governor?  The public have a right to know. Amaechi should tell the public why his government left a state asset in Germany for three years and never brought it back.  But Wike too should explain why he just cottoned on the plane after more than six years — beyond the allegation that it was undocumented. What the Wike government has pushed out are mere allegations.  It is trite in law that he who alleges must prove. By the way, Governor Wike should justify this fresh €3 million expense to the Rivers people, in the face of dwindling revenue and competing needs.  Otherwise, this excitement would pass as red herring and a cynical abuse of the news process.