The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has intercepted 649,300 capsules of Tramadol 225mg and 809,850 Euros cash from Pakistan, Austria and Italy at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Ikeja, Lagos. The Agency also blocked various quantities of Heroin and other illicit drugs from being exported to the United States, United Kingdom and Canada, spokesman Femi Babafemi said in a statement yesterday. Babafemi said that, at the Skyway Aviation Handling Company cargo warehouse at the airport, on February 16, anti-narcotics officers seized 649,300 capsules of Tramadol 225mg weighing 460.95kg imported from Pakistan via Addis Ababa through Ethiopian Airline. He said a suspect, Nwadu Ekene Christian, was arrested in connection with the seizure.   Boko Haram kills eight, razes village in Borno     Arepo residents seek pedestrian bridge     Mefi’s orchestra   He added that on the same day, a female passenger, Ms. Ayeki Happy, who arrived at the airport from Italy on Turkish Airline flight, was arrested with 69,850 Euros cash concealed in her luggage. This, the Agency’s spokesman said, was four days after another lady, Precious Idahagbon, was arrested with 740,000 Euros cash hidden in her luggage and undeclared upon her arrival at the airport from Vienna, Austria via Istanbul, Turkey. Babafemi said both cash seizures were being investigated to establish if they were proceeds of drug business. The statement reads, “At the NAHCO export shed of the airport, operatives seized a consignment of 131 parcels of Cannabis concealed in packages of black soap (Dudu-Osun), during outward clearance of cargo going to the UK. This is as another consignment presented for export to Dubai, UAE at SAHCO shed was also recovered after 30 parcels of cannabis hidden in cartons of cornflakes were discovered in it. “Not less than 6.5kg of Heroin, Khat and Oxycodone packaged for export to USA, and Canada were seized at a major courier company in Lagos by operatives of the Directorate of Operation and General Investigations, DOGI. The drugs were concealed in shoes, and carton walls.”