Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has reiterated the commitment of governors in the South to power shift in 2023. Akeredolu, who is the coordinator of the Southern Governors’ Forum, predicted that any political party that refused to field a southerner as its presidential candidate would lose the election. Akeredolu said the forum is determined to work for the actualisation of zoning. He spoke yesterday in Akure, the Ondo State capital, when he received members of the Power Rotation Movement. Last year, the governors of the 17 states took a position on rotational presidency on power shift to the zone. They reaffirmed the position at the three meetings held in Asaba, Delta State in May, in Ikeja, Lagos State (July) and Enugu, Enugu State in September. - Advertisement - According to the governors, power rotation between North and South, as introduced in 1999, should be respected. Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike, last week, renewed the call for power shift to the South. A one-time Jigawa State Governor Sule Lamido rejected the call. He said the process for the emergence of a competent presidential candidate should be left open. One of the aspirants from the North, former Senate President Dr. Bukola Saraki, also cautioned against sacrificing competence on the altar of zoning. However, Akeredolu said those opposing power rotation were tinkering with the existence of the country.   Senate okays six additional Nigerian Law School campuses     Pressure on Buhari to reject reworked Electoral Bill     Contractors shut NDDC office over debt   He reiterated his commitment to a fair and equitable Nigeria. Read Also: Nigeria’s future will depend on science and tech development, says Buhari Akeredolu said: “In about two or three meetings, we have come out and declared that power must move to the South. “Only a party that is determined to lose will field a northern candidate. You are now a movement of members of political parties coming together. What we stand for is fair and equitable power rotation. The only thing fair is that after 8 years in the north, it should come to the South. “Some of us believe in One Nigeria that’s fair and equitable. We have a reason for it and it can be defended. Some people have argued that the Presidency should be based on competence. Are they saying there are no competent ones in the south?” He added: “My brother governors from the South, all of us are determined. Whosoever we pick, for as long as it is South, we will support him. We are saying the President must come from the South. There are people who merit it in the Southsouth, Southeast, and the Southwest. “I also support your approach. If you are able to mobilise the youth and do not allow the election to be rigged, then we will win. You should also get our women to support us.” Bitrus, who doubles as Chairman, Middle Belt Forum explained that the movement was passionate about power rotation. He said: “We are passionate believers that power should rotate in this country and should move from the north to the south. We launched the 40 million ballot movement. That’s the sensitization of the youth. We launched it for our youth to key in. “Leaders in the south and middle belt met in Abuja and agreed that power should rotate to the south, that the middle belt and the south should move against any party that fields any candidate outside the southern part of the country,” he said. Other members of the group are: Ohaneze Ndigbo representative Gen. Collins Ihekire; National Organising Secretary of Afenifere, Abagun Kole Omololu; representative of Yoruba Council of Elders Ayodele Oni; Afenfere National Publicity Secretary Jaye Ajayi; PANDEF National Publicity Secretary Ken. Robinson and National Coordinator of Power-shift Movement and Forty Million Ballots Kennedy Iyere.