The Degema Local Government Area, Rivers State, has stepped up its war against illegal refineries by constituting a task force to battle the menace identified as the cause of the soot pandemic in the state. In a letter dated January 21st, the Executive Chairman of Degema, Michael Williams, named 10 persons as members of the task force with Malvin Thompson, a former acting leader of the Movement for the Survival of Izon Ethnic Nationality in the Niger Delta (MOSIEND), Abuja Chapter, as its Chairman. Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, had declared total war against illegal refineries to address economic sabotage and environmental pollution. He also mandated all chairmen of local government areas in the state to identify and destroy all illegal refineries within their domains. In the letter titled, ‘To whom it may concern,’ Williams named Okeinaye Pakirima as the Vice-Chairman of the Degema Task Force and one Sobrasua Odum as the Secretary.   Osun primary: Oyetola, Adeoti, Lasun battle for APC ticket     APC govs pressure state chairmen to shift convention     Okowa: Deltans won’t crucify me if I site medical school in…   - Advertisement - Others are Asweivi Ogidi, Wilson Williams, Ibinabo Braide, Godgift Ekine, Dikibujiri Abbey, Akonte Trinya and Victor Georgewill as members. Specifying their terms of reference, the letter said: “Their duty is to identify, confiscate and destroy all illegal crude oil refining sites and dumps. They are also duty-bound to arrest perpetrators and hand them over, same to security agencies for prosecution. “All security agencies and community leaders are enjoined to cooperate and assist them in the discharge of their legitimate duties of sanitising our waterways and communities of all illegal operations, our health and ecosystem”. MOSIEND’s  National Director of Mobilisation, Alhaji Bara Brown, expressed joy over the appointment of Thompson as the Taskforce Chairman, describing it as timely. Brown referred to Thompson as a disciplined and focused youth leader with the capacity to mobilise community support to stem the tide of unwholesome practices in the area. He commended William for his foresight and urged the council boss to properly equip the task force SPONSORED