The World Health Organisation (WHO), United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) and the GAVI Alliance (formerly the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation (GAVI) Thursday hailed the Federal Government’s routine immunisation and COVID-19 vaccination implementation. They noted that while there is an urgent need to invest in the expansion of the overall cold chain capacity for the storage of vaccines, especially at the local government level, the country has achieved significant progress in childhood immunisation and COVID-19 vaccination. Latest data from the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), showed that as of February 23, 2022, 17,430,722 of total eligible persons targeted for COVID-19 vaccination were reached with the first dose while 7,873,702 were reached with the second dose (fully vaccinated). Speaking during the GAVI Alliance high-level mission delegates’ visit to the National Strategic Cold Store of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) in Abuja, the UNICEF Director of Supply Division, Copenhagen, Denmark, Etleva Kadilli, said: “I am happy to see first hand the implementation of the overall vaccination, and of course, we are looking at the routine vaccination but also the COVID-19 vaccine. As you know, UNICEF and the Government of Nigeria and also with other partners in the GAVI Alliance, have been working very closely to address all the needs of children with regards to routine immunisation. We are also working to address the challenges that COVID-19 has put forward. “We also are seeing first hand the need for the expansion of the overall cold chain capacity, not just at the national level, but also looking at the regional level, which will fast track the distribution of vaccines to where they are needed and much faster. Read Also: ‘How to vaccinate every Nigerian against COVID-19 in 100 days’ “There is a long way to go. We are here not just to see the success but also the challenges, and support the government in their ambition to not only vaccinate the children, but also the people that are at risk of COVID-19.   Liver cancer, a silent epidemic – expert     Lagos unveils new health insurance products to improve…     Fed Govt begins vaccination with over 30 million J&J…   “We are also here to strengthen the health system – that routine immunisation is not left behind. COVID-19 response has taken a toll on the overall health system. It is therefore important that we use this opportunity to strengthen the health system and the cold chain capacity.” Speaking during an assessment visit by the WHO Team to the Garki Primary Healthcare Facility, the WHO Director, Department of Immunization, Vaccines and Biologicals, Dr Kate O’Brien said she was excited about the turn out of mothers at the clinic with their children for immunization. She further stated that for Nigeria to achieve the seventy (70) per cent global target of COVID-19 vaccination coverage, all hands must be on deck, especially at the local government level. She said: “You have all the materials and supplies. What is left is for the people to understand how important it is to be vaccinated. This is important because we’ve seen the waves of variants. They come in every four months. Nobody knows if there is going to be another variant. This is an opportunity for us to ensure that everybody is vaccinated. “We therefore cannot afford to drop our guard. Regardless of where you live, or your age,  you still need to get vaccinated when it’s your turn, with a complete course and booster dose if offered, and continue to take all the other preventive measures, both to protect yourself and others. “Ending the pandemic requires us to get to much higher levels of vaccination in key target groups and it must include getting all vulnerable individuals and health care workers vaccinated as a priority.” The Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dr Faisal Shuaib, added: “Again, we want to reach a situation where all eligible kids in Nigeria are vaccinated. Unless and until we reach those types of numbers, we will not be satisfied. We have to look at not only the coverage but also equity. For those who live in rural areas (desert, riverine and mountainous areas) , the poor, the vulnerable, we want to get the vaccines out there to them and make sure that they are protected from vaccine-preventable diseases.”