Since the end of Nigeria’s Civil War on January 15, 1970, that day has been specially designated as Armed Forces Remembrance Day (AFRD), a day set aside to remember the country’s fallen heroes. That is those men and women of the Nigerian Army, the Nigerian Air Force and the Nigerian Navy who died in battlefields during the First and Second  World Wars, the civil war and other national engagements at home and abroad. The day peaks with the laying of wreaths by the president at the National Cenotaph in Abuja’s Eagle Square, with same replicated in the 36 states of the federation. It is a day servicemen and ex-servicemen come out in their best military ceremonial attires, looking radiant and seemingly happy that an appreciative nation at least had set the day aside to celebrate them. But, beyond the facade of ‘all is well’ that is visible, most of these ex-servicemen have tales of woe to tell about their service years as well as post-retirement. This newspaper reported some of these challenges on March 23 from where we extracted the story of Master Warrant Officer, Esom Chinyere Juliet as case study. When in 1981 she joined the Nigerian Army at 18 as a regular intake, she looked forward to a promising career and a bright future. But, by the time she was retiring 35 years later, the hope had crumbled before her like a pack of cards. According to her, she had a glowing career in the military, won laurels for it, traversed Nigeria and the African continent in the course of service. She was a military officer who had seen it all. She was in many troubled spots on the continent, from Liberia to Sierra Leone, Bakassi, Sudan, Côte d’Ivoire and Mali. Apparently, she had suffered several injuries in the line of duty: “If you see me, you will know that God has been merciful to me, even with lots of injury (sic) and health hazards”, she said, adding, rather pathetically, that her “body is no longer complete.” Apart from being an experienced soldier, Esom was also a talented athlete. Indeed, she said she won eight gold medals while running for the Nigerian Army. “I was a talented athlete; I started by running for the Nigerian Army; from there, I ran for the Nigerian Armed Forces. “Bauchi ’85, … I was the Queen of Tracks; I won eight gold medals”. - Advertisement - In spite of what comes across as an experienced soldier-cum talented athlete, she has only ended up peeling and selling groundnuts by the roadside. This is pathetic indeed. But Esom is not alone.   Will PDP implode over 2023 presidential ticket ?     Despite COVID-19 hit, Nigeria’s health system still solid,…     WHO: it’s premature to declare victory over pandemic   So, what exactly is the problem? Or, better still, what are the problems? One is Security Debarring Allowance which she said is supposed to be paid to retired soldiers to get them integrated into civilian life socially, physically and psychologically. Five years after her retirement, she is yet to get a dime of this. The same thing applies to minimum wage, which had been approved by the Federal Government over two years ago. They are yet to benefit. As senior citizens, they require adequate medical attention. This too is not forthcoming as expected because, according to her, they are asked to buy prescribed drugs on their own if the cost is above N1,000 or N2,000. It is therefore not surprising that many of the ex-soldiers fall victims of all manner of ailments – high blood pressure, partial blindness, diabetes, partial stroke and what have you. This is callous, especially in a country where the political class takes more than adequate care of its own. For less meritorious service, they award themselves mouth-watering allowances and other insensitive privileges which make hardworking Nigerians green with envy. How do we justify the humongous allowances this class of Nigerians give themselves despite spending very brief periods in service, as against people who spend their entire prime ages serving the country? Not only that, the politicians find a way of collecting these perks as soon as they fall due whereas people who had put in decades of meritorious service to the nation undergo all manner of punishments euphemistically called verification, to get the peanuts due them after retiring from service. We know soldiers are not alone in this post-service punishments. Virtually all public officers go through the harrowing experience of delayed pensions and other benefits. But, irrespective of the category of Nigerians involved in this, the country is the ultimate loser. Civil servants who know this is the fate that awaits them after retirement do whatever they can to prepare for the rainy day. This is part of the reasons some of them tamper with public funds. Dedication to duty, patriotism, etc. take the back seat. As for soldiers, the consequences are probably more dire. People who are ready to sacrifice their lives for the country should be taken care of, not only when they are in service, but even after. Serving military personnel would be ready and willing to put in their all if they know that their dependants would be well taken care of if they die in the battlefront. But if they see that retirement means hardship, abandonment, etc., they would be demoralised and this consequently affects their productivity. It is heartwarming that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has announced plans to allocate funds to support families of our fallen heroes. But beyond this is the need to ensure that the money gets to the desired people. Fifty years after, we ought to have learnt the right lessons to make our ex-servicemen sing a new song.