The Rivers State Government has received N2bn from the healthcare Intervention Funds of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The State’s Executive Council confirmed that the money was N500million short of its earlier approval. A statement by the Special Assistant to the Governor on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, said the CBN matter was one among the wide range of issues and approvals considered and given by the council at its meeting presided over by Governor Nyesom Wike at the Government House in Port Harcourt on Thursday evening. Speaking after the meeting, the Commissioner for Finance, Isaac Kamalu said the money from the CBN had already been deployed in health sector. He said: “Council was briefed on the earlier approved CBN Healthcare Intervention Fund wherein approval was granted that the Rivers State Government access the CBN N2.5bn Healthcare Intervention Fund to the effect that the amount actually released by CBN is N2bn not N2.5bn as requested. - Advertisement - “And that the N2bn has been utilised for the payment of contractors in the respective medical institutions for which approval was sort and granted. “That is, the Prof. Kersley Harrison Hospital, Dental and Maxillofacial Hospital and Dr. Peter Odili Cancer and Cardiovascular Diseases Diagnostics and Treatment Centre.” Kamalu explained that when completed, the projects would reduce the quest for medical tourism in foreign countries. “These facilities are being put in place by government, not just to provide medical services for Rivers citizens and residents here but for other Nigerians who would have the benefit of getting these medical services without seeking to go abroad for the same service”, he said. Kamalu said that council also approved the establishment of a first-class Radiology and Radiotherapy Unit at the Dr. Peter Odili Cancer and Cardiovascular Diseases Diagnostics and Treatment Centre in Port Harcourt. He said the unit would be run by professional healthcare management experts to ensure provisions of maximal and requisite services. Commissioner for Housing, Tasie Chinedu Nwobueze, said council approved the acquisition of all undeveloped and uncompleted buildings in the old and new Government Residential Areas (GRAs) in Port Harcourt and Obio/Akpor local government areas. He explained that the council observed that the long abandonment of such properties had turned them to a hiding place for criminals and miscreants.   UPDATED: Supreme Court declares Executive Order 10…     Gunmen kill Kaduna’s MDA Director     VIDEO: Driver escapes death as car falls off Jabi bridge,…   He said: “Again, leaving those plots overgrown with grasses have defaced the urban renewal programme which the State Government is implementing. “And so, council had approved that all those undeveloped plots and uncompleted buildings in Old GRA and New GRA be acquired. Monetary payment will be paid to the owners as agreed with the government”. Nwobueze said the council also approved that the acquired plots should be reallocated to indigenes of Rivers State and other residents capable of developing them within a timeline of 12 months. He said: “And again, Council also approved that those reallocated these plots cannot resell these properties to anybody and if they do, Rivers State Government will revoke such allocation.” He said council also confirmed rectification of any previous acquisition made by the state Government. Nwobueze said council approved the sale of the Rivers State Government owned former Riv-Bank Insurance building and premises that located on plot 6,7 and 8 Orije Layout on the Port Aba Expressway to members of the public. He said the Wike’s administration reconstructed and developed the structure into a seven-storey office complex. He said: “The State Government took this decision having considered that the property will be better maintained by private investors. And that the funds invested by the Rivers State Government in reconstructing this 7 floors building can be recouped from the sale of this property. “And that the proceeds from the sales of this property can be judiciously put into the execution of the numerous ongoing projects by the Rivers State government.” On her part, the Commissioner for Commerce and Industry Mrs. Ifeyinwa Nwankpa said Council also approved the sale of Delta Hotel and eight catering rest houses in the state. She said the guest houses located in Ahoada, Bori, Degema, Elele, Isiokpo, Nchia, Omoku and Okehi, had all become dilapidated, non-functional and used as hideouts for hoodlums. She said: “And so, it will be waste for government to pump in money into bringing them back to use by renovating these facilities. “So today, Council agreed that we will call on willing private investors who will put them back to use and then renovate them for the use of our people, and it will also create employment for our teeming youths.” The Commissioner for Information and Communications, Paulinus Nsirim said council approvals on healthcare delivery, housing and commerce were in line with government avowed commitment to ensure that greater priority was given to those sectors of the economy.