On the cusp of the All Progressives Congress (APC)  primaries, the Osun State capital Osogbo, was witness to a drama not in harmony with the ideals and tenets of democracy. It is, if not checked, heading to a climax of bloodletting and fear. The Minister of Interior and former governor of Osun State, Rauf Aregbesola, launched a road show that threatened the peace of the city and betokened chaos at Saturday’s event. According to Yemisi Opalola, the state police spokesperson, “Yesterday’s action was conduct likely to cause a breach of the public peace. About 5:30pm, Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, was moving in a convoy of personnel of NSCDC, correctional service, immigration, as well as some unidentified armed people, suspected to be political thugs, on Orisumbare/MDS Road, Osogbo.” That was not all, Opalola added, “Thirteen empty shells of G-3, assault, and AK-47 rifles were recovered on the road after the minister’s departure. No casualty was recorded. The situation is under close monitoring.” It is sad that a serving minister of the republic would turn himself into a puffy bee with a convoy of correctional service personnel and immigration service, along with persons identified as thugs on a tour in a Nigerian city. This act does not belong to law or civilisation. Where in law does a minister wax into an emperor on a Nigerian road and make a sanctuary of personnel that he has no right in law to pay for them to accompany him on a political journey or task? - Advertisement - What Aregbesola has done is an abuse of government office, and he brought impunity right from the face and façade of the Federal Government to the state in which he was the chief security officer.   Julius Berger’s example     Mob justice in police’s face     The mirror effect   - Advertisement - They were just not with him. They were armed. What was the purpose of that act? The report that gunshots were unleashed into the quiet air of the state is not a cheering piece of news. The only cheer was that it resulted in no human casualty. The empty shells of G-3, assault and AK-47 rifles bestrewn the streets of the city before the police recovered them was clearly an act of intimidation. It is an episode of thuggery when a minister decides to shake a state out of its peace in the name of a political campaign. There is no doubt that there has been a series of clashes between the supporters of the Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, and Aregbesola. But for it to break into a primary should not be tolerated by the police and other law enforcement agencies. The governor has asked the president, Muhammadu Buhari, to call his minister to order. This is a grave matter for a governor to draw the attention of the commander-in-chief to what he sees as a mischievous personality working in his cabinet. It is a matter that the president ought to look into and address immediately. It is significant that Aregbesola is not just a minister and a former governor but also a chieftain in the same party as the president. There is also a grave allegation Sunday Akere, Oyetola’s special adviser on political affairs, has levelled against Aregbesola. Hear him: “What they are trying to do is to cause crisis in the state, probably for them to get sympathy and to make the Federal Government declare a state of emergency.” Aregbesola is minister as a servant of Nigerians, not himself. For him to appropriate persons and arms that should serve the country for himself is a violation of his oath to the constitution. It will be even more tragic if he is allowed to continue with that imperious air and foment banditry in Saturday’s event. It will then not be only a minister’s folly, but a federal-assisted crime. SPONSORED