Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma met with leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state recently and challenged them to work hard to ensure that the party wins the Ngor-Okpala State Constituency by-election, which is scheduled to take place this Saturday. A statement by Chief Press Secretary and Media Adviser to the Governor, Oguwike Nwachuku said the meeting was also an opportunity for the governor to task party stakeholders to keep their doors open for all intending members who wish to join the party. Governor Uzodimma, the statement added, reminded them that what the APC needs most today is quality leadership at all levels. He, therefore, urged the APC leadership to market the party in Ngor-Okpala with the activities and achievements already recorded by his administration. He said there are ready-made yardsticks that will make the party attractive to, not only the electorate in the Ngor-Okpala area but to other states in the Southeast. Governor Uzodimma who informed the Party leaders that his ambition is to leave APC stronger and bigger than he met it urged them and all members to support him. The statement reads: “The governor had thanked the State Working Committee for putting the meeting together, noting that it was important to him for two significant reasons – first, to reiterate his earlier promise to return the APC back to the people and give the party leadership the autonomy and free hand to manage the party and, secondly, to stress the importance of the Ngor-Okpala Constituency Assembly bye-election.   How APC’s planned February 26 convention was scuttled     Shifting APC convention embarrassing, says Okorie     APC crisis: Allow Buhari, Tinubu, others decide NWC members…   - Advertisement - “There is no small election in politics these days hence all members should be concerned and involved for the party to win the election. It is imperative for the leadership to share responsibilities towards mobilizing and stimulating Ngor-Okpala APC members to prepare for the Saturday, February 26 election.” Governor Uzodimma took time to educate the members on the current election process which starts from polling units to collation points where election results are declared. He noted that it requires the full participation of members. He said: “All members must be committed from the voting points to collation centres without relaxing and must avoid after election unnecessary blame games because what the party needs is nothing but a win from hard work.” Uzodimma expressed gratitude to APC members who participated in the primary where Blyden Amajuruonu emerged as the APC candidate. He urged them to come together to support him and work for the success of the party.  The governor also thanked them for recognising that the party is supreme. He promised to accommodate them in his administration. Similarly, the governor assured APC members that have been working for the success of the party that they will not labour in vain. He said, “the Ngor-Okpala by-election will provide the opportunity to prove to Imo people that the party is strong, popular and attractive”. He added: “It is a litmus test for the APC and the party will leverage on the unprecedented infrastructural development achieved by this administration to campaign for the election.” Among the stakeholders who graced the meeting were the Deputy Governor Placid Njoku; former Governor Ikedi Ohakim; Deputy Speaker of Imo State House of Assembly, Amara Iwuanyanwu; Secretary to Government of Imo State, Cosmus Iwu; Chief of Staff, Nnamdi Anyaehie; former APC State Chairman, Malcolm Nlemigbo; as ll as two former Speakers of the Imo State House of Assembly, Chiji Collins and Paul Emeziem; serving members of the Imo State House of Assembly, Tony Chukwu, Tony Chukwueke and Henry Amadi; among others.