The leader of All Progressives Congress (APC) caucus at the House of Representatives, Hon Segun Odebunmi has advised stakeholders in the party against fanning ember of division among members. Odebunmi, representing Ogo- Oluwa/ Surulere Federal Constituency, said the return of former Oyo APC chairman Ajiboye Omodewu and Inauguration of party excos are in order and should be supported by those genuinely interested in the progress of the party. Senator Ayoade Adeseun, who spoke on behalf of APC stakeholders recently, had dismissed the return of Omodewu and inauguration of excos as the climax of what he called the reign of impunity in Oyo State. He alleged some minority in collaboration with outside forces had sought to impose on the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. “They will definitely fail as the stakeholders will use all legal means to resist any attempt to allow Omodewu as chairman of the party,” he said. - Advertisement - But Odebunmi noted that such statement should not be emanating from any genuine leader of the party. “Everything has been resolved ,there is no crisis in the party. The leadership of the party are already making serious moves to reconcile all stakeholders so that we can have a united APC in Oyo, so there is no cause for alarm,” he stated.   Six in court for stealing varsity’s N53m property     Osun community boils as police uncover body in cultist’s den     Lagos upgrades resident card   He claimed some people want to use the development to create crisis in APC to reactivate their political relevance. Odebunmi stated: “It is quite sad that Senator Adeseun will be among those championing issues against the party, most especially when all sons and daughters of Ogbomoso land are mourning and yet to bury out political leader Otunba Adebayo Alao- Akala. ” I am always baffled that a personality of Sen Adeseun would always be caught in the web of antagonising the choice of the people like he did in the Peoples Democratic party (PDP) untill he lost the battle against Gov Seyi Makinde at the Supreme Court. “Adeseun is seeking political relevance. We left PDP for him and moved to APC. He failed fo utilise the structure and he later joined us in APC in 2019 after he had lost in the PDP and rather than working for the progress of the party he is still in the opposing side. “I want to urge the leadership of APC to ignore him. He is only looking for political relevance as they used to do in PDP.. “If you check his political history, you will know that he has never stayed in a political party for two dispensations consecutively. “He would have gone back to PDP but because he has fought the party up to the Supreme Court level, he has no other party to go than to stay in APC. “But as a critical stakeholder, I want to urge him to abide by the Constitution of the party and be concerned with the progress of the party.” SPONSORED