Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello on Saturday attributed the breathless situation in the country to the tendency for old politicians to hold on to power without giving the youth a chance to breath. Addressing a gathering of youths from the North East states at the launching of his Rescue Nigeria Mission, RENMISS campaign in Gombe, Yahaya said if the youths continue to allow the old politicians continue to pilot the ship of the nation, the nation may cease to breathe completely. Yahaya, who spoke through is Chief of Staff, Abdulkareem Asuku, said what his Rescue Nigeria Mission is calling for is not just youth inclusion in government but total take-over of the driver’s seat because they are the ones who have the leadership capacity, technical know-how, ability and the number needed to change the situation of the country. “When I said Nigeria cannot breathe, I am trying to address the myriads of problems confronting the country today. First is insecurity, under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari, the nation has achieved a lot but it is not yet Uhuru. We need somebody who will not just stay in Abuja and allow things to happen without going to supervise it and that is where the agility and ability of the youths of this country is needed.   Benue 2023: I will rescue the state from insecurity, cultism…     Katsina denies Mahadi Shehu’s allegation of corrupt…     Why Buhari should sustain ongoing pipeline security deal, by…   “We need to secure our nation. No nation can succeed without security. The unity of this country is at stake today; Muslims no longer trust Christians, the North no longer trusts the South. You can hear people saying Fulani should leave my enclave, Ibo should leave the North. This is not what the founding fathers of this country envisaged,” he said. - Advertisement - According to him, Nigeria cannot breathe today because of disunity. He explained further that what RENMISS is doing is awareness creation to call on the youths to use their voter’s card to enter into governance business and not through revolution. “We have a leader in Kogi State, in person of Governor Yahaya Bello who has been able to unite the people of Kogi State and even appoint people that are not from the state to be part of his Government system. He is the first Muslim in government that decided to build a chapel in the Government House for Christians to worship. That is called religious tolerance,” he said. Participants at the official launching of RENMISS in Gombe were drawn from the six North East states of Gombe, Bauchi, Adamawa, Yobe, Taraba and Borno. SPONSORED