The Woman Leader of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Ekiti State, Chief Monisade Afuye, has emerged running mate of Mr. Biodun Oyebanji, the party’s flag bearer in the June 18 governorship poll. Ekiti APC chairman, Paul Omotoso, in a statement through the party’s Public Relation Officer, Mr. Segun Dipe said Afuye was nominated by the party after extensive consultation with stakeholders. Omotoso stated Afuye’s name has been forwarded to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in outright compliance with the electoral guidelines, adding necessary formalities had been concluded. The statement reads: “The Ekiti State All Progressives Congress is announcing the nomination of Chief (Mrs.) Monisade Christianah Afuye as the party’s Deputy Governorship Candidate for the June 18, 2022, gubernatorial election in the state. “This development has been formally communicated to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in keeping with extant electoral guidelines, and necessary formalities concluded. “Afuye’s emergence is the outcome of extensive consultations with critical stakeholders across the State and has been welcomed enthusiastically, not only by party members, but also youth and women organisations, artisans, market women, the traditional institutions, and other grassroots stakeholders in the State. “We are pleased that the nomination of Chief (Mrs.) Monisade Christianah Afuye has been well received by our people, especially amongst grassroots stakeholders.   Complete Sports publisher Ojeagbase dies     Release Kanu to end sit-at-home, says cleric     Osun primary: Why Aregbesola’s man’s appeal was dismissed,…   “This has affirmed the correctness of our choice in response to the yearnings of the people for a Deputy Governorship candidate who is grounded in local realities”. Afuye thanked APC leaders and all stakeholders for the confidence reposed in her with a promise not to betray the party for any reason. She also promised to maintain an open door and work collaboratively to ensure the voices and perspectives of people at the grassroots are incorporated in the planning and implementation of policies. Oyebanji described the nomination of Afuye as a very strategic move to bolster the chances of the party at the polls. He said: “I am most excited to welcome Chief (Mrs.) Monisade Christianah Afuye is my running mate for the coming June 18 governorship poll. Madam Afuye has been a part of the political structure in the state for many years now and is an accomplished mobiliser and voice for the masses. “I know her to be a woman of immense wisdom and generosity of spirit, and I am confident that she would be a great partner whose reach and connections with the grassroots would contribute to earning the mandate of the people and eventually running an inclusive and progressive government that works for all.”