Four wise men toured Europe during the week to speak with Super Eagles players with the message that Nigeria’s green-white-green flag should be hoisted among the comity of nations at the Qatar 2020 World Cup competition later in November. The players may also have been told of mouth-watering packages for them if they beat Ghana’s Black Stars both on March 23 and March 27. Indeed, the players were introduced to the new technical crew which had the assistant coach with technical sagacity, whatever that means. We suddenly have woken up from our slumber to appreciate the fact that only the players get onto the pitch to play their hearts out. How we allowed the players’ match bonuses and allowances to be paid after the country’s ouster from the Cameroon 2021 Africa Cup of Nations. We have forgotten that the lifespan of any player’s career is between five years to 12 years, barring injuries. So, every kobo should count for jobs done, especially for those of them who don’t want to embrace coaching. Failure to plan for the most vital aspect of the team’s preparations which is the players’ welfare is a big minus on the administrators’ astuteness. No matter the plans they had for them, failure to reward them promptly tells the story of a federation that do th1ings on their hunches – no deliberate method to address such critical areas of the game. The federation’s chieftains shouldn’t delude themselves that the players are expecting anything different from their experiences on such matters. Unpaid debts to Super Eagles predates this federation, hence the players have always resorted to self-help to get their entitlements including getting the federal government to ship in$3.8 million to France from Abuja to settle the players’ requests, 24 hours before the Round of 16 World Cup tie against France. What beats this writer is the presence of the federation’s boss in such players’ visits. Such seemingly harmless tours around players’ abodes, indirectly tell the coaches the players he must play if he doesn’t want to incur the boss’ wrath. Besides, these players become swollen-headed knowing their presence in the team wasn’t the coaches’ call, leading to acts of indiscipline that destroy the team’s common resolve – beat the next opponent; this time the Black Stars of Ghana. Players who have chummy relationships with federations’ bosses become undisciplined knowing that the matter would be resolved in his favour. How do the federation’s chiefs expect the coaches to take charge of their wards when the big men did most of the talking rather than allow the coaches to spell out his coaching philosophies to his tools (players) who he has to work with. On the hind side, the visit reinforces the fact that the federation appreciates what they have been doing for the country just as the virtual meeting between the players and the honourable sports minister Sunday Dare underscores the importance the government gives to the athletes who are Nigeria’s worthy ambassadors. - Advertisement - We have not been told what the federation chiefs and the minister told the boys beyond the fact that Nigeria’s qualification for the Qatar 2022 World Cup was not negotiable.  This writer only hopes that the players’ match bonuses and other entitlements have been released to the federation to avoid a repeat of what happened in Cameroon. The federation should house the team in a hotel where security is top-notch such that it would impossible for any visitor to distract them.   Don’t toy with Nigerians’ emotions     Picking Eguavoen’s brain on Eagles     How not to treat heroes   March 23 and March 27 are watershed dates in the country’s football with the Black Stars being the common enemy. It is instructive to note that the Ghanaians would rather be beaten by a minnow than lose to Nigeria. It is always the prestige encounter(s) that they don’t toy with. Forget about what is being dished out to us on social. Super Eagles versus Black Stars’ tie(s) is a tribal war. As the game draws closer, Nigerians in the Ghanaian cities would start to complain about intimidations from the natives. The buses, cars, viewing centres, and anywhere young men and women are gathered would make the game the focus of their discussions. Therefore, the federation start the media blitz to educate our fans to throng the stadium on March 27 to cheer the Eagles to victory. The federation’s men should ensure that all monies meant to pay the players, coaches and their backroom staff are ready before the first leg, even if it means handing over to the team’s secretary. Our players, coaches, and backroom staff are galvanised at the sight of cash. I don’t blame them, knowing where they are coming from. These are kids of the downtrodden who have used the innate skills to earn a living for themselves which inevitably rubs off on their family members. They are breadwinners of the families and most times to their communities. Never again should their needs be kept in abeyance on the altar of the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN’s) bureaucratic processes. It is simply unacceptable because we have known about these fixtures several months ago, making it imperative for its approval to be a matter of fulfilling their obligation. March 27 will be a very nervy game for both countries, especially if the Eagles beat the Black Stars. The federation’s chiefs should allow the coaches to have their say by telling the players what to do in the second half. This tendency of our government officials overcrowding the dressing room at halftime distracts the players and mitigate against the set objectives of the day. Anyone wishing to motivate the players with whatever should do so before the game since they would need maximum concentration after using the first five minutes of the half-time talks to rest their limbs. The players are demanding more spectators at the MKO Abiola Stadium’s stand and it is important to reiterate here the location of the stadium is too far away from the town. The federation and the sports ministry can sign agreements with the owners of buses at the bus parks in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to provide buses to run shuttles around the city to pick up fans to the stadium and back.  These buses should be marked to avoid infiltration from dubious people to seize the opportunity to rob innocent Nigerians and visitors who would throng the stadium to watch the March 27 game. The buses should be close to 800 if the federation hopes to quell any form of violence. Some fans may decide to take the laws into their hands in victory and in defeat (God forbid). Motorbikes, if allowed in Abuja could suffice. It is important to state that the gates should be opened within the last 15 minutes of the end of the game to allow for easy exits for those who have seen enough. We need to ensure that only 40 percent of the stadium’s capacity is sold as tickets for the March 27 tie. Viewing centres fitted with big screens should be established in pilot areas for fans to watch too. Need I emphasise the need for effective security in and around the stadium? The security architecture should begin from two days to the game leading to the presence of battle-ready operatives to protect lives and properties within the vicinity of the stadium before, during, and after the game. People who don’t have the match tickets should be whisked away from the place. Tickets should never be sold around the vicinity of the stadium, no matter what. Those selling their wares should be stopped from selling drinks whose containers can serve as weapons during the game. The Ghanaians are old customers and could seek easy passage to the World Cup stating certain forbidden things which the fans may have caused. Nigeria’s quest to secure one of the Qatar 2022 World Cup tickets should be achieved on the pitch not dragged before any disciplinary panel to adjudicates.  Up Super Eagles! Up Nigeria! SPONSORED