24 February, 2022 The National Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), National Headquarters, Plot 1970 Michael Okpara Street, Wadata Plaza, Wuse Zone 5, Abuja.   Sir, LOOMING POLITICAL APOCALYPSE IN AKWA IBOM PDP: TIME TO REIN IN UDOM EMMANUEL It is with a deep sense of duty and loyalty to our dear party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that we have, after hours of careful deliberation, sought to intimate you of the looming disaster of apocalyptic dimmension in our state chapter, unless the sheer madness unfolding before our eyes is addressed decisively and our dear leader, Governor Udom Gabriel Emmanuel, strongly advised to put the interest of the party first and be circumspect in pursuing his self-serving succession agenda.   Mr. Emmanuel’s shoddy handling of his ambition, that is, foisting his cousin, the Commissioner for Lands and Water Resources, Mr. Umo Eno, on the party as his preferred candidate is tearing the party apart. Also, the uncouth manner in which he attempts to railroad the entire state structure, party hierarchy and members to adopt his choice is unbecoming of a leader in a democratic setting. His actions clearly go against the principles of internal democracy which our party holds in high esteem. Much more, we are concerned that in his desperation, he is creating cracks within and opening the party’s flank for crushing attacks by the opposition.   If left unbridled, our state party leader might cause the party to lose the governorship ticket through disqualification as he has already started veiled campaigns in churches and held open rallies even before the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) announces timetable for commencement of electoral activities.   Sir, we crave your indulgence, at this point, to itemize some areas in which Governor Udom Emmanuel is becoming a source of serious concern to the party:   1) Governor Udom Emmanuel’s preferred aspirant is unpopular, against the interest of the party and reduces the chances of the party winning the governorship election in 2023 by more than half.   Due to his below average performance as a governor in terms of poor project delivery (both in quality and quantity), lack of transparency, lack of empathy and poor interpersonal relationship with party stakeholders, the generality of the people said enough is enough for elitist ‘Lagos-based’ governor and voiced their desire for an ‘home-grown’ governor in 2023 that connects with them. There are several of such politicians I’m our fold who have worked for the party over the years whom should be rewarded with a call to such high office.   Unfortunately, the state leader in his wisdom wishes to impose his cousin, Mr. Umo Eno, who is equally elitist and has a bad record of high handedness and maltreatment of his staff at hospitality outfit, Royalty Hotel, Eket. Despite all entreaties to Mr. Umoh Emmanuel to see reasons against picking a family member as a possible successor seems to have fallen on deaf ears. Instead, the state leader is attempting through blackmail, threats and intimidation to collapse the structure of other aspirants into that of his preferred aspirant. Consequently, the party is sharply divided along interest lines, State Working Committee is badly polarised and hardly maintaining cohesion. There are rumours of mass defection too.   2) Due to Governor Udom Emmanuel’s impunity and unfair treatment of other aspirants and creating a climate of scorn for his aides, who are nursing political ambition, the state executive council is in disarray and the governor seems unable to control his cabinet members. A case in point is his rift his Chief of Staff, Akparawa Ephraim Inyang-eyen. The governor recently sacked his erstwhile Man Friday for simply answering a question on government policy on project execution while he was serving as Commissioner for Works.   The scandal which his avoidable rift with Akparawa Inyang-eyen has caused further worsens the notoriety of the administration and rubs off badly on the image of our party. Meanwhile, the opposition is calling for blood, threatening to invite anti-fraud agencies to investigate the government.   As the leader of our party, Mr. Emmanuel should be concerned because any investigation of his administration may lead to further exposure by his now estranged Chief of Staff, which will further distabilize the government and by extension our party. He would forget how formidable a foe Akparawa Inyang-eyen could be at his own peril, but for the sake of our party we implore the national leadership to wade into this matter as soon as possible to deescalate.     Best Gift Card Trading App In Nigeria – Say Hi To…     Trading like a pro – useful tools you should get to know     How Nigerians are using USDT to hedge funds against…   Needless to add that the governor has shut down government in the state, scaled down all forms of physical development and directed all ministries and agencies to focus on promoting his cousin as governorship candidate for our party.   3) We learnt from credible sources in local government councils that since Governor Udom Emmanuel returned to power in 2019, he directed that every month a percentage of funds for local government be deducted from the State – Local Government Joint Account and deposited in an undisclosed account for each Local Government Area from which he would use to fund campaigns for his preferred candidate in that Local Government Area.   This is at the time when retired primary school teachers are lamenting non-payment of their retirement benefits and National Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE) is threatening to commence industrial action over non-payment of entitlements. The governor has completely overrun the local government system, bullying local government chairmen into doing his bidding.   4) Recently, during his last media chat, Governor Udom Emmanuel told the world that he has not received a dime from federal government as refund for reconstruction of federal roads in the state. However, his claim was immediately refuted by Policy Alert, a nongovernmental organisation championing accountability and transparency in public office.   It may interest you to note Sir that since our leader rose to power, he has refused to disclose actual sums of money spent on contracts. This has contributed to mar the perception of the PDP administration in our state.   Finally Sir, we wish you to know that the current state of affairs in Akwa Ibom State PDP is appalling, leaving much to be desired. As we are today we may likely lose the general election come 2023 if the concerns raise in this letter are not addressed promptly and comprehensively. While maintaining our loyalty to the party and our leader, the governor, we wish to state categorically that PDP stands to lose Akwa Ibom State in 2023 if the governor is not called to order now. We hope this letter meets you in sound health and vitality. Please be assure of our highest regard.       Signed: High Chief Samuel Ukpabio Eket Senatorial District   Barr. Andem Andy Uyo Senatorial District   Atuekong Uyoata Udofa Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District   For and on behalf of PDP Founding Members, Akwa Ibom State Cc: 1. Chairman/Members of BoT