AS Teach for Nigeria (TFN) marks its fifth year of grooming teachers and sending them to underserved communities across the country, its CEO, Ms. Folawe Omikunle said the organisation hopes to have trained the best of Nigerian graduates as teachers who can lead educational transformation in Nigeria. Speaking at a virtual briefing to mark the non-profit organisation’s  anniversary last Wednesday, she also announced the opening of applications for TFN’s two-year fellowship programme, targeting young change-makers committed to tackling Nigeria’s foundational learning challenge in underserved primary schools. In her opening remarks, Ms. Omikunle said: “The vision of our organisation is to ensure that, one day, every Nigerian child has access to an excellent education. Hence we remain committed to recruiting cohorts of promising leaders to provide extensive support and teach in communities that are experiencing economic and social injustice. Our solutions are bold and by 2031 we would have built a network of over 20,000 leaders across all geopolitical zones in Nigeria working in deep partnership with local communities to impact over a million students each year.” Launched in 2017, Teach for Nigeria has been working in tandem with government, private sector, development partners and young Nigerians to close the foundational learning gaps for children in underserved schools across Nigeria.   YABATECH retains top ranking     International Women’s Day: Bridge Academy recommits to…     Mum shares how toddler was flogged   - Advertisement - Also, Board Member and co-founder, TFN, Alero Ayida-Otobo, said TFN was started to address issues of quality teachers in the education service delivery system. - Advertisement - “Teach For Nigeria was conceptualised in 2014 at the 20th Nigerian Economic Summit (NES) in a bid to transform the Nation’s education sector given the problems faced by the sector at the time. From inception till now, it has made significant changes and improvements that have not only impacted the sector but improved the future outcomes for children. “TFN is a model and prototype of what is possible in the educational space in Nigeria and will continue to raise an army of leaders that understand the educational problems, design the solutions and impact children in their classrooms and beyond.” Chairman, TFN Gbenga Oyebode, said the body had achieved a lot. “Over the past five years, we have focused on helping children from the most vulnerable backgrounds learn by placing outstanding leaders to teach in classrooms through the two-year fellowship. Teach For Nigeria is committed to addressing the complex issues of inequities in education. We will continue to deliver our solutions to catalyse the transformational change we want for all children in Nigeria. A successful nation is one that equips it’s children with the right skills to navigate a constantly changing world.” SPONSORED