Erstwhile league leaders Remo Stars fell from first to third yesterday after suffering defeat for the first time this term. The Sky Blue Stars who were top of the log before MatchDay 12 saw their eleven games unbeaten run halted by Gombe United in a 1-0 defeat of the Gbenga Ogunbote coached side following Ibrahim Yahaya’s 15th minute solitary strike. Rivers United regained leadership on the log after their victory on Saturday Meanwhile, Remo Stars lost further ground at the summit after Kano Pillars were beaten 0-1 at home in Kaduna by in-form Plateau United. Plateau’s Player of the Month of January, Sunday Anthony scored in the 84th minute to seal a fourth consecutive win for Fidelis Ilechukwu’s side who climb to second position on the log. - Advertisement - Still on climbers, Rangers International climbed to 4th spot after a come-from-behind 2-1 win over Abia Warriors in an Oriental Derby decided in Nnewi. Imama Amapakabo’s Warriors scored first through Valentine Odoh in the 49th minute but Rangers levelled matters through Christian Nnaji’s 66th minute penalty before Chidiebere Nwobodo scored the winner five minutes later. Former Super Eagles B star Sunday Faleye made a remarkable return to Shooting Stars as his lone strike twelve minutes from time secured a 1-0 win over Dakkada FC in a game played behind closed doors in Ibadan. The win ensured Shooting moved to 6th on the log, their highest position so far this season. Champions Akwa United slipped eight points adrift of league leaders Rivers United after a wasteful 0-0 draw with beleaguered Heartland in Uyo. The Promise Keepers were awarded two penalty kicks, taken by Ubong Friday and both saved by veteran goalkeeper Olufemi Thomas. In Makurdi, Ifeanyi Ogba scored both goals as Lobi Stars beat relegation haunted MFM FC 2-1 at the Aper Aku Stadium. Oladayo Alabi’s 80th minute goal for MFM turned out a mere consolation, being their first away goal this term. Sunshine Stars continued their dogged display in away matches by forcing hosts Nasarawa United to a 1-1 draw in Lafia. The Deji Ayeni-led Stars drew the first blood in the game through former Nasarawa star Ugochukwu Leonard Aputazie with just three minutes on the clock but Shehu Lawal’s 39th minute equaliser meant that the game ended all square. The games come thick and fast in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) and MatchDay 13 come up next in midweek     FIBA World Cup Ticket: Sports Minister congratulates…     Napoli 1-1 Inter : Italian legend faults Osimhen ‘s rating     NTDs: Troost-Ekong to captain Team Thrive Africa   NPFL: Match Day 12 Results Rivers United 3-0 Wikki Tourists Enyimba 1-1 Niger Tornadoes Katsina United 1-0 Kwara United Lobi Stars 2-1 MFM FC Akwa Utd 0-0 Heartland Gombe Utd 1-0 Remo Stars Shooting Stars 1-0 Dakkada Kano Pillars 0-1 Plateau Utd Nasarawa Utd 1-1 Sunshine Stars Rangers 2-1 Abia Warriors SPONSORED