Former Nigeria internationals Daniel Amokachi and Efan Ekoku who both won the 1994 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) with the Super Eagles have showered praises on Liverpool’s striker Sadio Mane for scoring the decisive penalty kick that gave the Teranga Lions of Senegal their first continental silverware at the senior level. Mane who was adjudged the Most Valuable Player of Cameroon 2021, was indeed Senegal’s main man as he scored the winning penalty in the shootout against Egypt, having seen a first-half spot-kick saved as Sunday’s game ended 0-0 after extra time. Gabaski’s save from Mane in Yaounde was the fourth time the Senegalese had been foiled from 12 yards when playing at the Nations Cup. Mane saw his effort saved in the quarter-final shootout defeat by Cameroon in 2017, and two years later he failed to convert in the group game against Kenya and the last-16 tie with Uganda – although he did score in both of those games. Former Nigeria striker Daniel Amokachi, a Nations Cup winner in 1994, said Mane “showed a lot of character” to take a penalty again in the shootout against the Pharaohs. - Advertisement - “I wasn’t feeling it when he stepped forward, but you can see how he drilled that ball into the corner,” Amokachi told the BBC World Service.   NFF names Amuneke Eagles’ chief coach     NFF names Amuneke new Super Eagles coach     Nike terminates contract with Greenwood over sexual…   “That’s what a star player is all about. I did say that we’ve seen him miss chances when playing for Liverpool but the character that he puts into the game, the quality always comes through in the end.” Former Manchester City midfielder Yaya Toure, a Nations Cup winner with cote d’Ivoire in 2015 after defeats on penalties in the 2006 and 2012 finals, praised Mane’s “courage”, while Efan Ekoku described Mane’s eventual winner as “the biggest kick of his life”. “I’m so pleased for Sadio Mane,” former Nigeria striker Ekoku said on BBC Three. “He’s been through a lot with his national side. He was brave, and what a penalty. The keeper was beaten by the accuracy just as much as the power.” Meanwhile, Mane said winning Senegal’s first Africa Cup of Nations was the highlight of his career. The West Africans had previously lost two Nations Cup finals, including a 1-0 defeat by Algeria three years ago. “It’s the best day of my life and the best trophy of my life,” the 29-year-old Liverpool forward said. “I won the Champions League and some [other] trophies but this is the special one for me. This is more important for me.”I am happy for myself, my people and all of my family.”