United States-born Jonathan David has been making waves in Europe recently thanks to his stellar performance with Lille. The striker is currently helping the French side top their group in the Champions League, and leading French newspaper Le Parisien reports that Chelsea FC is actively keeping an eye on the young star. David’s contract runs until 2024, so it would be no small feat for Chelsea to lure him away from Lille. Nigerian football fans have been captivated by a man who has risen through the ranks of Belgian football to represent his nation at the senior level. Most Nigerian punters have also been supporting and following the European leagues through wagering on his team. This season punters will have more fun as he has already been involved directly in 14 goals out of the 12 appearances he has made so far. With the most popular and trustful betting sites in Nigeria offering odds, predictions, and competitive markets, punters can now enjoy following him. So, who is Jonathan David and how did he become such a coveted player? Born in Brooklyn, New York, David moved to Ottawa when he was four before he started playing with Ottawa Gloucester Hornets aged seven. He went on to play in Canada’s top flight at 16 before moving to Belgium where he caught the eye at Gent. David became a full international for Canada on 23 August 2018, less than two months after he had made his debut for Gent at the age of 18. He scored 11 goals in 18 games for Canada in Ligue 1, making him the topscorer in the current season. The forward has impressed so much with Gent that he attracted interest from Europe’s biggest clubs, including Liverpool and Arsenal. His agent, Nick Mavromaras has confirmed that  David would be leaving Lille as the season ends. Nick cites that the Premier League is a good stage for Jonathan which should help him grow professionally. Mikel Arteta has been interested in bringing the footballer over to England, so he should be excited that the player is now ready to play with the big boys. As a topscorer, Jonathan David has attracted the attention of many. His skills as a striker has placed him on Arsenal’s radar. Although Arsenal seems unsure of the futures of Aubameyang and Lacazette, the team seems determined to acquire the Forward as a resource for their team. Jonathan’s Success story   Rising crude oil prices great opportunity for Nigeria —…     New law prescribes 10 years jail for electoral offender     IGP orders special promotion, monetary reward for…   It took Jonathan lots of determination and a strong support system. Jonathan recalls the words his coach, El-Magraby, who told the boys that he wasn’t just training them for the MLS academies but preparing them to make careers out of football in Europe. David Jonathan played against Zulte Waregem in 2018, which was his debut. He scored as a substitute player. After his first goal, the player has since been signed up by LOSC and scored 30 goals in 60 games for Gent in the Belgian League matches. While David didn’t play any football till he was 11 when his father signed him up to a team, he sure has made a name and a stage for himself 11 years later. The talent has done well and he’s ripe to play in the Premier League for the big names. He has helped Lille win its first Ligue 1 title after a decade after scoring 13 goals last season. David defeated bigger and more spending clubs in Ligue 1, so he is worth playing for a big European team. Besides, that was his dream all along. He knew exactly what he wanted and he certainly knew how to get it. The World Cup is his new stage As Canada prepares to appear in the FIFA World Cup (which is their second appearance), David gets a new stage to show case his talent and skills. Canada defeated US in a recent window, making them favorites to make it to Qatar. The World Cup focuses on talents such as Davies Alphonso, Bayern Munich’s defender and David. The one thing that is evident is the role and need for a high profile manager like John Herdman. Steven Caldwell a former defender for Scotland has been watching Jonathan David as a coaching staff for Canada. He assures that David could do wonders in the Premier League and the World Cup as long as he work with teams like Manchester City and Liverpool. David Jonathan was determined to leave a legacy and make a career and at 22 he seems to have achieved it all. While scoring goals for Canada, he has managed to give back for good course. Its undeniable that he is destined for great!