The Association of Corporate Affairs Managers of Banks (ACAMB) has paid glowing tributes to veteran public relations guru and founding president of the association, Mallam Kabir Dangogo, as he celebrates his birthday today. ACAMB is the umbrella body of marketing communications, public relations, media and creative professionals working in Nigeria’s banking sector. In a congratulatory and goodwill message, ACAMB eulogised Dangogo as the doyen of public relations in Nigeria, one of the most-celebrated communication strategists, a through-bred professional and an astute manager whose brilliant exploits across the broad spectrum of communication are legendary and unparalleled. President, Association of Corporate Affairs Managers of Banks (ACAMB), Mr. Rasheed Bolarinwa, commended the visionary and leadership qualities of Dangogo and other founding members of ACAMB, noting that their foresight, 26 years ago, gave birth to what has become a formidable professional platform in the Nigerian banking industry.   2023: Division in PDP Governors’ Forum deepens over zoning     Royal blessings for Tinubu’s presidential aspiration in Oyo,…     Fuel scarcity may dampen Q1 economic performance   ‘‘Mallam Kabiru Dangogo is a living legend. He is and remains a respected and go-to authority on public relations as far as the theory and practice of financial public relations and reputation management as a discipline, is concerned, not only in Nigeria but globally. - Advertisement - “During his decades of professional practice, he made indelible contributions and footprints on the broad spectrum of communications and the banking industry and made his way to the Senior management team,’’ Bolarinwa said. Bolarinwa, who doubles as Head, Corporate Communications, Strategic Brand Management, Polaris Bank Limited, added that Dangogo is a shining light worthy of emulation by the upcoming generation of communicators, even as he promised that the present executives of ACAMB under his leadership would do everything possible to preserve the legacy and milestones which Dangogo bequeathed as the pioneer president of the association. “I had the opportunity to speak with him on the telephone a few days ago. His vivacious and affable personality is still as intact as ever. He is still as passionate about the profession that he practiced for over three decades. His ideals on professionalism and the need for aspiring professionals to seek knowledge are exemplary.” SPONSORED