Some residents of Agric community in Ojo Local Government, Lagos state have bemoaned the upsurge in armed robbery attacks at major bus stops in the area. The residents also said that the hoodlums sell and smoke hard drugs and rob people at night. The residents said the hoodlums live in the shanties near the bus stops. Agric bus stop, which consists of six community development associations (CDAs), is located along Okokomaiko Road before Volkswagen bus stop in Ojo Local Government. The community leaders pleaded with the Lagos State Government to clear the shanties built by the hoodlums and station security personnel at the bus stops. - Advertisement - The CDA leaders, who spoke in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), said that their bus stops are not secure anymore. They said that the armed robbers come out from the shanties to rob, killing anyone who refuses to comply.   Woman kills husband’s nephew with knife     How COVID-19 doses saved me from dying, by FCT minister     Fed Govt warns Nigerians in Ukraine over Russia’s ‘imminent…   They said that about 11 people have been killed and over 50 injured in the area. Mr Abiodun Gbamgboye, the CDA leader of Habib community, said, “The whole community is scared as our bus stops have turned to armed robbers’ den and hard drugs zone The shanties built by the hoodlums are their major hideouts. “We see them display hard drugs they sell and smoke; they even display a mixture of drinks with hard drugs. There are many people who have been killed while being robbed. For instance, one Stanley Mbosah was killed last week while returning home. “Most of us no longer take our cars out of the community for fear of being robbed by the hoodlums. “We want the State Government, the police and Nigeria Drug Law Enforcement Agencies (NDLEA) to come to our aid,” he said. Another CDA leader, from Olowotabutabu community, Mr Emmanuel Chukwudi, said that there is the need for Government to arrest the hoodlums who live in the shanties built at the bus stops. “I want Government to help us station Police Patrol at the bus stops, remove shanties and arrest the hoodlums, their presence is causing agitation to inhabitants of this community,” he said. Mr Salau Rasheed, a CDA leader of Ayedoto community, said, “Our bus stop is no longer safe for even our children who go to school; we are scared that the hoodlums may want to lure our children into taking hard drugs,” he said.