A group, Rescue Nigerian Youth Solomon Dalung Foundation has thrown their weight behind the presidential aspiration of Prince Adewole Adebayo. Speaking in Lagos during the inauguration of the foundation, its Southwest Zonal Chairman, Elemide Ayodeji Oluwaseun said it is time to close the generation gap and give the opportunity to the younger generation to lead the country. He said the country is beset with a myriad of challenges, including the poor handling of the economy, insecurity and the agitation by the younger generation for more inclusive governance. Oluwaseun said the problems could only be managed by persons who understand the issues. He said Prince Adebayo has the capacity, pedigree and passion to lead the country. He said Adebayo’s various youth intervention programmes, particularly in agriculture and allied sectors, is sufficient evidence that he could take Nigeria out of the woods. The group said with Adebayo’s educational background and exposure, he is in a good position to rescue Nigeria from the older generation and cabal that have held the country hostage for many decades.   Lawyer to Ayu: Make PDP a strong opposition     Activist to youths: prepare for 2023     Uzodimma challenges APC leaders on Ngor-Okpala by-election   The Southwest zonal chairman said the youths are encouraging him to throw his hat into the political ring because younger Nigerians in their millions are ready to mobilise support for him. - Advertisement - While urging youths to take their destiny in their hands by coming out to support one of their own, Oluwaseun said the time is ripe for the younger generation to rescue the country from the cabal holding it hostage. He said Nigerian youths are getting tired of selfish politicians with failed promises that have been perpetuating themselves in power, “even though they cannot tackle our economic woes or the insecurity ravaging the land”. National President, Comrade Navy Stephen said the youth are waiting for Adebayo to flag off his campaign to enable them use their numbers to support his aspiration. He said there was no going back in the bid to support a younger aspirant for the presidency this time around, particularly one as qualified as Adebayo. Women leader, Apostle Temitope Afolabi Adebisi said Adebayo deserves a shot at the presidency because of his disposition towards issues affecting women, development and gender balance. She said different women groups would galvanise support for him because he has the capacity to offer purposeful leadership that can take Nigeria out of its current political, economic and social challenges.