Better use of technology in judicial administration will help speed up justice dispensation, a former President of the Court of Appeal (PCA), Justice Isa Ayo Salami (retd), said yesterday. He called for stronger legislation to regulate new technology to prevent abuses and harness their economic benefits. Justice Salami spoke with The Nation on the sidelines of a lecture and launch of the book: The Business Lawyer, written by a Senior Associate at G.M. Ibru & Co, David Fayemi and published by Diamond Publications Limited. It was in commemoration of over five decades of legal practice and as part of activities marking the 80th birthday of the firm’s Principal Partner, Mr Goodie Ibru. The lecture, with the theme: Evolutionary trends in the world of work, commercial law practice and business networking, was delivered by a maritime law expert Chidi Ilogu (SAN). - Advertisement - Justice Salami, who chaired the event, said: “For instance, most judges write in longhand, but if there is a means proceedings can be recorded and reproduced correctly, it will help because there is that danger of altering what has been said due to the human element. “It’s not that judges prefer to write in longhand, but they work based on what is available. “The lecture touched on digitalisation, so in my closing remarks, I advised that these things should be backed by appropriate legislation to make them safer and the processes quicker.” In his speech at the event, Justice Salami recalled that he and Ibru were in the Nigerian Law School set of 1967/68 and enrolled as solicitors and advocates on June 26, 1968. A proud Salami said of his Law School classmates dominated the public sector, having produced two Chief Justices of Nigeria (CJNs) in quick succession and two PCAs, including Justice Umar Abdullahi. He praised Ibru for “giving the 1978 set a royal battle in its area of dominance,” explaining that the Law School Class of ’78 was dominant in private practice. “I am aware that the book we are here to unveil also contains the legendary achievements of our unique set.   Find attackers of Aregbesola’s campaign office,…     Ohanaeze: Igbo not interested in leaving Nigeria     APC inaugurates state chairmen   “Goodie Ibru has not only contributed to the growth of the corporate commercial practice in Nigeria but also to the development of the economy of this great nation,” Salami said. The former PCA said the theme of the lecture was apt as, according to him, “Nigeria is currently trying to consolidate her position as the largest economy in Africa and also struggling to keep pace with modern innovations in international business such as digital currencies, SG networks, artificial intelligence, among others”. Ibru, who paid tribute to his Managing Partner, Eddie Chukwura, who passed on recently, gave an insight into the theme of the lecture. “One year ago, we were confronted by a simple truth that one of the strongest foundations for human progress lies in open and global economies. “COVID-19 had no respect for international boundaries, and I challenge our commercial and legal experts to zoom up with renewed strength geared towards bringing down the Walls of Jericho surrounding the international world of law and commerce,” he said. Ilogu highlighted the enormous changes to the old ways of doing business brought about by technology, most of which have been widely deployed due to COVID-19. He urged businesses and the legal profession to adapt to the changes and embrace cutting-edge technology. Ilogu said advancements in cybersecurity, telecommunications, blockchain, renewables, fintech and big data, amongst others, were all part of the evolutionary trends that offer new specialisation opportunities for lawyers. The reviewer, Dr Richard Oma Ahonaruogho (SAN), represented by activist-lawyer Richard Nwankwo, said the book was “as comprehensive and thorough as can be.” “It is hard to imagine that anything meaningful, in terms of its object, has been left out. “In its ten wonderfully-detailed chapters, all rendered in beautiful flowing prose, the author captures the essence of the man, the business icon, the corporate guru and the hands-on barrister like only one with a front-row view of the subject in his elements, can command,” he said. A professor of public administration at the Lagos State University (LASU), Jacob Fatile and a partner at Babalakin & Co, Dr Bayo Adaralegbe, were the discussants at the event which drew dignitaries and captains of industry.