There was drama in the Senate Chambers on Tuesday as the Clerk to the Senate, Dauda El-Ladan, attended plenary and carried out his normal duties in clear defiance of his retirement from service. The National Assembly Service Commission (NASC) last week directed El-Ladan to proceed on immediate retirement from Service having put in the required number of years. The letter addressed to El-Ladan was signed by the Chairman of the NASC, Engr. Ahmed Kadi Amshi. The letter specifically directed El-Ladan to proceed on retirement from February 9, 2022. However, El-Ladan appeared to have defied the official instruction of the Commission by attending plenary and performing his usual duties on Tuesday. - Advertisement - The Senate leadership also appeared to have condoned the apparent insubordination and disobedience to lawful directives contrary to relevant provisions of the Public Services Rules. In the letter dated February 9, 2022, with reference number NASC/PF/69/184, titled: “Retirement from service” and addressed to Clerk to Senate, Dauda Ibrahim El-Ladan, the NASC had said: “The Commission at its 547th Meeting held on Wednesday, 9th February, 2022, has approved your retirement from Service with effect from 9th February, 2022. “The Commission wishes to acknowledge your immense contribution to the growth and development of the National Assembly Service. “As you proceed on retirement, please handover your Office and other Government property in your possession to the Deputy Clerk, Senate (Legislative), Ilobah Isabella Ugochi. “On behalf of the Commission, I pray that Almighty God will continue to grant you good health and success in your future endeavours.”   Abba Kyari: Police mum over disbandment of IRT, STS…     Woman abducts five children in Rivers     Passport: NIS urges Nigerians to exercise patience   It was however not clear why the leadership of the Senate allowed El-Ladan to carry out official duties despite having retired from service. The Secretary Special Duties of the National Assembly, Adebayo Anthony Ademola, was also asked to proceed on retirement by the Commission. The Secretary of Planning & Legislative Budgets of the National Assembly, Okpara Michael Nnaechi, was said to have been given six months to retire. The three top management staff of the National Assembly has recently come under a barrage of criticism from Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) over alleged falsification of age. The CSOs had petitioned the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, Chairman, NASC, Engr Ahmed Kadi Amshi and the Clerk to the National Assembly, Arch. Olatunde Amos Ojo, asking them to investigate and mete out appropriate punitive measures against any of the officers found culpable. A source, who spoke to The Nation on the matter expressed dismay over the development. He said the action of the ex-Clerk to Senate was capable of laying a bad precedence if not quickly nipped in the bud by the leadership of the Senate. Another staff confirmed El-Ladan had cleared his table at the weekend after receiving the NASC retirement of letter but wondered about the twist of events. A member of the NASC, who spoke to our correspondent on condition of anonymity, confirmed the Commission had formally communicated El-Ladan and directed him to proceed on retirement. Efforts to reach the National Commissioner in charge of public Affairs, at the commission, Mr. Turanyo Akintomide, failed as his mobile was switched off. However, a source said that a disciplinary action ought to be taken against El-Ladan for “misconduct” in line with Public Service Rules by the National Assembly Service Commission. SPONSORED