Reality TV star, Mercy Eke aka Lambo has shared with fans the messages that secured her a place in the Big Brother House. Lambo, who not only secured a spot for herself on the most-watched African reality TV show also, won the grand prize for the season 4, Lockdown edition, becoming the first female to ever win the BBNaija show. Three years after her win, the 28-year-old media personality has taken to Snapchat to share the Whatsapp messages that got her on the show. The messages read: “I’m mercy, I deserve to be in the Big Brother House because I’m the missing link and will bring a(lor) to the table. “….I’m a bundle of randoms. Unbridled entertainment, suspense, top-notch content and my creative instinct will come to play.. - Advertisement - “This will definitely keep millions of viewers glued to their screen. “Having been an avid fan of Big Brother all these years. Definitely, my calm but eccentric persona will bring spark and mind-blowing fun in the Big Brother House.” She captioned post: “Oh wow, 3years ago. God I bless your holy name.” Her post has since sparked a debate among social media users with many insisting she couldn’t have been the person that wrote such near impeccable English.   My love for giving, by fashion designer Princewill Iwueke     Yoruba actor, Tafa Oloyede, for burial Feb. 11     Erigga: No girl should be given Valentine’s gift…   reevaccessories stated: “I love mercy but someone wrote this for her.” Kindnessfidelis asked: “My darling mercy wrote this?” bishy_opeyemi said: “If I hear say na mercy write these big big English.” ladyque_1 wrote: “This isn’t mercy’s hand writing.” fuoye_hotties stated: “Mercy def didn’t type this… I’m sure.” funmi_7 asked: “Na mercy write that English?” ambyy4real said: “she didn’t write it herself.” the_serena wrote: “Mercy didn’t type this.” _kentgram stated: “But Mercy no b your handwriting be this o.” the_kiki2 wrote: “Okay! But this grammar doesn’t seem like mercy eke grammar.” cassi_lionz said: “She did well weather she’s the writer or not. The most important thing is that she won it.”