A pan-Ndokwa social-political group, the Organisation for Ndokwa Unity, has lauded Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege and Senator Peter Nwaoboshi for their efforts in placing the Ndokwa nation among the map of university communities in the world. It said the lawmakers played key roles in passing the Bill for the establishment of the Federal University of Agriculture and Technology, Aboh (FUATA), in Ndowa East area of Delta State, which has been transmitted to President Muhammadu Buhari for assent. In a statement issued at the end of a stakeholders and leaders’ meeting of the Ndokwa Unite held in Asaba, the Delta State capital, signed by Onotu Henry Okechukwu, the group noted that Omo-Agege has helped give a sense of belonging for the people of the oil-rich Ndokwa land. The group urged President Buhari to leave his foot strongly on the sand of time by assenting to the bill and releasing funds for its take-off. “FUATA will be the greatest legacy of the current administration and dream come through for Ndokwa people,” the group said.   New Radio begins operations     Nigeria’s problems require fresh solutions, says…     Appeal Court reserves ruling in Andy Uba’s suit   - Advertisement - Going down memory lane, the group said: “A time was when the former President Olusegun Obasanjo-led Federal government was to establish a Federal University of Petroleum Resources in Ndokwa land but for crises of confidence and rivalry among Ndokwa elites, the project was sabotaged and subsequently aborted by aggrieved personalities who felt they were not carried along in the process. “Our commendation won’t be complete if the efforts of Senator Nwaoboshi, who is representing Delta North Senatorial District. “He has done exceedingly well for us without which the bill for the establishment of FUATA wouldn’t have seen the light of day. “We acknowledge several challenges the proponents of the bill face by the forces of politics with bitterness who had attempted to once again sabotage the beautiful efforts of our transformational senators. “Posterity shall kind to Omo-Agege, Nwaoboshi and all well-meaning Ndokwa sons and daughter who have contributed on one way other to push the bill on the desk of the President for assent. “We thank the ninth Senate for its steadfastness and efforts to re-write the ugly narratives of Ndokwa people.”