Ubi Franklin’s fourth baby mama, Sandra Iheuwa, has cried out over the negative effects the constant bad news from bloggers is having on her pregnancy. The businesswoman, married to Steve Thompson of Royal Hairs, is expecting a child. She took to her Instagram page to lament her predicaments because bloggers keep peddling negative news about her. According to her, the situation has affected her so much that she’s lost over 10kg in a few weeks. She said she has made frequent visits to the hospital because she’s emotionally and mentally drained. - Advertisement - She further pleaded with bloggers to keep her affairs off their radar so she can deliver safely as she described her pregnancy as ‘high-risk’.   Why Nollywood, South African film industry should…     Areezy announces plans to release EP after single Gbagbe     Shady Blue admits to using COVID-19 to her advantage   The expectant mother wrote: “I have been trying to stay strong but there’s a limit especially in my condition. It’s impossible to stay offline when my business is online and nobody can run my business the way I want. “I have to be online to run my business in order to make money, pay my staff and feed my children. “This past couple of weeks have been draining mentally and emotionally that I lost over 10kg…..I have been in and out of hospitals due to stress and complications causing me to go into preterm labor. I have to protect myself by myself which has been very challenging. “The negative news from different bloggers isn’t helping but causing more problems and issues. I’m using this medium to please ask that you all stop this I am pregnant and high risk, let me deliver my baby in peace maybe after delivery you can continue with your negative news. She added: “I do understand some of you derive joy in writing/hearing bad news than good news but wait till I deliver safely and please leave me alone. “I just want to focus on myself, pregnancy and my business. Please I don’t need any advice all I need is love, support and prayers.” SPONSORED