Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) yesterday stormed Lagos Island, arresting an alleged drug trafficking kingpin and six others. The anti-drug trafficking agency also recovered 5,862 kilogrammes of assorted illicit drugs including Loud and Codeine, according to a statement issued by its Director, Media and Advocacy, Femi Babafemi. The operation occurred days after fast-rising singers, Oniyide Azeez popularly known as Zinoleesky and Ilerioluwa Oladimeji also known as Mohbad were arrested by operatives of the agency. The Nation gathered that operatives of the anti-drug agency, acting on reliable intelligence had stormed the affected areas, including Patey, Dumare, Tapa, Freeman and its environs, which were said to be notorious for using and peddling all manner of drugs. In the several videos shared on Twitter, many residents of the affected areas were seen scampering for safety. In one of the videos seen by The Nation, suspected hoodlums in their numbers engaged the operatives, resulting in sporadic shootings. A statement issued by Babafemi yesterday said that one Mrs. Sherifat Kehinde Lawal, an alleged major drug kingpin operating in Patey area, was arrested along with six other suspects. He said the operatives also recovered 5,862 kilogrammess of assorted illicit drugs following credible intelligence and follow up surveillance on illicit drug dealing in Osho, Gambari, and Beecroft Streets. Babafemi said anti-narcotic officers stormed the Gambari street base of the alleged drug kingpin where they arrested her and six of her accomplices at 9:30am while other members of the cartel operating in the axis mobilised hoodlums who attacked the operatives with stones, bottles and guns. He said the attack was a bid to prevent the officers from arresting other kingpins marked for arrest and taking away the drug exhibits and suspects already nabbed. “The operatives were able to tactically defend themselves, took the suspects and exhibits away,” the statement said, identifying other suspects arrested with Lawal as Ahmed Yisau; Solomon Alape; Olayemi Akinola; Salami Qudus; Bakare Rafiu; Rose Samson; Yusuf Rofiat, and Chukwudi Egon.   NSCDC arrests man, 40, for allegedly violating step daughter     Abiodun condemns ritual killings, vows tougher action…      Mahdi Gusau’s slow motion impeachment   Reacting to the incident, the Chairman/Chief Executive of NDLEA, Brig-Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa (rtd) commended the officers and men of the Lagos Command of the agency for the successful operation. He warned those that were being used by drug cartels to obstruct or attack anti-narcotic officers in the course of doing their work to desist or face dire consequences. The NDLEA, in a Twitter Space forum it organised yesterday, explained why operatives of the agency do not need to have a warrant before they can search premises, arrest suspects and seize exhibits. The explanation came days after the agency came under criticism over the manner in which its officers conduct searches and arrest drug suspects. Many Nigerians had accused NDLEA operatives of invading houses of suspects without search or arrest warrant. Reacting to the criticisms, Babafemi shared a screenshot of an Act that allows NDLEA operatives to search premises without a warrant. The screenshot reads: “This is for the benefit of those who want to know why officers of @ndlea nigeria don’t need a warrant to search premises or vehicles; arrest suspects or seize exhibits. It’s the LAW!” It added that “any officer of the Agency involved in the enforcement of the provisions of this Act: “May, without warrant, enter and search any land, building or carrier, including aircraft, vehicle or container or any other instrumentalities whatsoever which he has reason to believe is connected with the commission of an offence under this Act. “May perform test and take samples of any substance relating to the commission of an offence which is found on the land, building or carrier, including aircraft, vehicle or container or any other instrumentalities whatsoever pursuant to the paragraph (a) of this subsection; “Arrest any person whom he has reason has committed an offence under this Act; “Seize any item or substance which he has reason to believe has been used in the commission of an offence under this Act.”