Bayelsa State Government has partnered Sterling Bank Plc, Zipline, a leader in instant logistics, drugstoc and health spaces to implement a transformation agenda in the state’s healthcare system under a Health Supply Chain Consortium. According to the memorandum of understanding (MoU), the Health Supply Chain Consortium will invest in the transformation of Bayelsa State healthcare supply chain by procuring all required pharmaceutical supplies, developing best-in-class warehousing infrastructure, provide comprehensive last mile logistic solutions and ensure revenue optimisation for the state. Sterling Bank will be responsible for deploying and implementing an automated revenue collection system for tracking and collection of revenue accruing under this agreement, provide access to capital or credit facilities for the project, where such funding requests meet the bank’s risk assessment criteria and provide accounting software and financial services hardware at retail points of the Project. The partnership will enable the state to enhance access to health care, improve inventory management for medical supplies, enhance emergency responsiveness and make on-demand, life-saving deliveries of medical supplies possible. Speaking at the signing of the MoU in Yenogoa, Governor Duoye Diri said the state remains well committed to delivering an aggressive agenda of building a dependable health delivery system, part of which has given birth to this partnership. - Advertisement - “We envisage that this partnership will remain one of the most significant ways of removing the access barriers that mitigates easy delivery of medical commodities to our health facilities,” adding that, “Even distribution of on-demand medical commodities to remote and hard-to-reach areas do not only safe lives but also become a significant way of managing waste that happens as a result of expiry of medicines,” Diri said. By this agreement, Zipline will establish a distribution hub in Bayelsa State for the introduction, operation and maintenance of a just-in-time instant logistics solution to ensure that essential drugs, blood and a selection of other life-saving medical supplies are available to the state health facilities in Bayelsa State. When completed, the service will operate 24 hours a day, seven days a week, day or night, from the distribution centre which will be equipped with Zipline’s proprietary fleet of drones.   Ships laden with over 5m MT arrive ports     Soaring food prices to reach new heights this year     Govt can’t cut expenditure, says Akabueze   Divisional Head, Health Finance and Education sectors of Sterling Bank, Mr. Obinna Ukachukwu said the bank’s membership and role in the consortium resounds its commitment to transforming the healthcare sector in Nigeria; one partnership and project at a time. “With each transformative collaboration, we seek to take the Nigerian population one step closer to a healthcare system that meets their needs at every turn. Each member of this consortium is working towards one crucial goal for the Bayelsa State Government and her people; to make healthcare better. This vision drives the H in our HEART strategy and is the sole reason we are in this business,” Ukachukwu. Chief Executive Officer, Zipline; Keller Rinaudo said Zipline was pleased to partner with the people, government of Bayelsa and Sterling Bank to advance instant, autonomous healthcare delivery across the state. “This partnership is an important milestone for Zipline as we scale smart, safe and just-in-time delivery technology and transform how goods move around the globe” Rinaudo said Senior Vice President for Zipline Africa, Daniel Marfo assured that Zipline will begin the construction process immediately so as to stay within the agreed timelines. “We are committed to rapidly meeting our side of this agreement, part of which entails building of a distribution hub from where we will store and deliver the medical commodities and employ hundreds local team members from Bayelsa. Our system is well tested across Africa and the United States, and there is no doubt that it is a giant step in expanding universal healthcare access in Nigeria” Marfo said. Commissioner of Health, Bayelsa State Dr. Pabara Newton Igwele said the partnership was significant to the state as it would complement its efforts in hitching up primary health care delivery services. “There is no doubt that leveraging technology for medical delivery should be a game changer for even distribution of medical commodities, Igwele said. The Bayelsa signing follows Kaduna and Cross River states that have already signed onto the Zipline technology in Nigeria.