The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) said it has intercepted large quantities (120 tons) of dangerous animal hides and skins popularly known as ponmo with seven merchants of the deadly product in Lagos. The Director General of the NAFDAC Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye warned the general public, particularly consumers of ponmo against the activities of some unscrupulous businessmen and traders who are selling industrial and chemical-laden animal hides as food. Adeyeye, in a statement by the Resident Media Consultant to NAFDAC, Sayo Akintola, said the agency’s Investigation and Enforcement officials swiftly carried out intelligence gathering around certain locations where the alleged products were being warehoused and sold. The agency noted that the interception was in response to several complaints received from the public pertaining to alleged sale and distribution of imported hides and skins meant for use in leather industries and which had already been processed with industrial chemicals. These hides and skins are then sold to unsuspecting public as consumable animal skin products. - Advertisement - She said: “Monitoring was also extended to some buyers who patronise the sellers and custodians of the warehouse. “Preliminary investigation revealed that some of the hides and skins were imported illegally and sometimes diverted to some merchants of death who re-process the hides and skins and further sell them as consumable ponmo to the public.” In the light of these discoveries, she said that the agency recently conducted investigative raids upon some identified locations in Lagos State where market women and men were found clustered for purchase of leftovers from the warehouses.   Enugu shuts markets, offices for council polls     Drama as Niger Councillor chases govt officials with dogs,…     Rise in banking fraud: whodunit?   She stated that large quantities of the products were intercepted at six different locations, stressing that seven suspects who were alleged to be involved in the acts are currently under investigation. The NAFDAC boss further explained that samples of the products have been sent to the laboratory for testing so as to ascertain the products quality and unwholesomeness. She explained that the intervention would help NAFDAC deal with the interaction and the dangers associated with the consumption of these products. Adeyeye however alerted the general public on the existence of these merchants of death and their nefarious activities as she warned Nigerians to exercise caution when buying animal hides, popularly known as ponmo. She further warned that the hides, are pre-treated with industrial chemicals which are not of food grade and will be toxic and injurious to human health, stressing that health hazards inherent in the consumption of such animal hides include risk of liver, kidney and heart damage, increased risk of aplastic anemia, central nervous system toxicity, cancer, amongst several others. “The street value of the product currently intercepted is estimated to be around N25.330m only. “NAFDAC wishes to advise consumers and retailers of Ponmo not to patronise importers of hides and skins for consumable animal skins. “The general public is hereby encouraged to be very vigilant and exercise discretion when purchasing animal hides, ponmo, and indeed other food items. NAFDAC is fully alive to her responsibilities of assuring the safety, wholesomeness, and quality of processed foods offered for sale to the public,” she added.   SPONSORED