The National Assembly yesterday set an annual target of N3 trillion for revenue-generating agencies. Senate President Ahmad Lawan said they were capable of generating and remitting that annually to the Federal Government. But they must cut down on wasteful spending, he said. Lawan spoke at the opening of an interactive session between the Senate leadership and members of the Committee on Finance and Revenue Generating Agencies of Government. According to a statement by his Special Assistant  (Press), Ezrel Tabiowo, Lawan promised that the Senate would provide the support to ensure that revenue agencies performed to meet and surpass their targets. - Advertisement - He said: “In 2022, the National Assembly assumed and rightly so, that our Government Owned Enterprises can generate up to N3 trillion if we are of the mindset that we can achieve that and, of course, ensure that we oversight to stall any possibility of unwarranted expenditures by agencies of government.” Chairman of the Committee on Finance Senator Solomon Olamilekan Adeola lamented that there were insufficient funds for the implementation of policies and projects captured in the 2022 budget. “There is an urgent need for all hands to be on deck on revenue generation for government, as well as prevent misuse and leakages of such revenue for frivolous purposes not sanctioned by the laws of the National Assembly,” he said. Comptroller General of the Nigeria Customs Service Col. Hameed Ali (retd.) lamented that the new Finance Act has barred the agency from collecting revenues.   Agitation for Biafra beyond Kanu, says IPOB     Why APC is in crisis, by Buni, Reconciliation Panel     CBN restructures forex bidding process   He argued that the relevant session of the Finance Act has ceded the collection of taxes to the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), thus leading to confusion in the Customs. Ali said: “Section 22 of the Finance Act 2022 seeks to amend the Federal Inland Revenue Service law Section 68 (1), (2), (3), (4) and (6) by allowing the Act to take precedent over any other law with regards to the administration of taxes, assessment, accounting, collection and enforcement of taxes and levies due to the Federal Government and the Federation of Nigeria… “The amendment is so wide and open that we in the Nigeria Customs Service took it that it had hindered our ability to collect levies and other collections. “Our understanding of the provisions is that all other laws which mandated us to collect are inconsistent with the new Act, then they are voided. “This means that the law that mandates us to collect as revenue-generating agencies are voided completely. “We have consulted with lawyers and the conclusion is that the Act is confusing and if other revenue-generating agencies decided to act on the provisions, they may decide not to collect duties and levies.” Lawan said the National Assembly took it for granted that the Finance Bill, being an executive Bill, has afforded all agencies concerned to harmonise and make input before it was transmitted to the National Assembly. He lamented that the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed’s absence at the session did not help matters. He described the claim by Ali as a “scary revelation.”