Nigerians have been urged to embrace savings culture and financial prudence in order to create a sustainable living standard, irrespective of changes in economic environment. Managing Editor, Premiums Media Limited, Mr Dotun Oladipupo and Assistant Director, Lagos State Civil Service, Alhaji Abdur Rasak Misbahudeen agreed that savings and investments are important to creating and sustaining enduring livelihood. Oladipupo, who is the Publisher of The Eagleonline newspaper and immediate past President of Guild of Corporate Online Publishers (GOCOP), said in this period of economic downturn, cultivating a savings culture would impact positively on a family living in the long run. Misbahudeen noted the importance of collective savings and investment schemes as vehicles to long-term success of the individual members as such schemes provide cost efficiency and scales for members to achieve their personal objectives. They spoke at the Annual General Meeting of Ikhwan Mutual Forum in Lagos. The theme of the meeting was: “Surviving the challenges of family upkeep, harsh economy and rising cost of living”. - Advertisement - According to Oladipupo, for every family to survive and thrive under the harsh economy, serious attention must be paid to costs, at home and in the offices, to whittle down expenses and maximise the benefits of every spending. He said the family income must be structured in a way that it is diversified and sustainable, with all parties bringing values to the structure. He noted the effects of factors such as climate change and health challenges on the socio-economic environment and cautioned that the global financial system may not get better, thus the need for families to imbibe self-discipline and prudence.   SEC, CIS make case for professionalism     FMDQ Exchange lists N154b commercial papers, mutual funds     MTN Nigeria has potential for higher returns, say analysts   According to him, families should consider practice of bulk purchase of items as this helps to reduce costs and ensure stability of other plans despite any temporary changes in income flows. He urged Nigerians to be creative; work out better alternatives; avoid imitating others blindly as well as being wasteful in order to successfully navigate the current economic challenges. Misbahudeen added that the economic situation calls for families to be prudent in spending; focus on the needs instead of wants, as well as prepare the family’s budget. “The cost of living is increasing geometrically and arithmetically but the salaries and wages of Nigerians are hardly increasing.  The take-home pay of a lot of workers can hardly take them home with the price of a bag of rice almost at par with the minimum wage. “Just a few months down the line, a unit of gas cost just N250 but today it goes for N700 to N750 and it has a domino effect on the prices of goods and services,” Misbahudeen said. According to him, the key strategies to survive and thrive in spite of the challenges rest on efficient personal planning. “Do not spend the money you do not have to buy the things you do not want so as to impress the people you do not like. Spend carefully. Focus on your needs and not your wants. Your needs are things that are critical to your everyday survival. That should be your topmost priorities and until you have met them, you shouldn’t go to your wants. “Live within your means, life is in stages and men are in sizes. Live your size per time. While you are trying to make money learn to live within your means.” “Achieve food security for you and your family.  If you do not have money in your pocket but there is food at home, there is no problem. But if you do not have money at hand and there is no food at home, you are in crisis then. Do not buy food to last just one month, buy food to last three months or even six months and keep topping it monthly,” Misbahudeen said. SPONSORED