The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) has approached the National Assembly for the amendment of its enabling Act. During a  public hearing at the House of Representatives in Abuja, the institute said that since inception, it has supported various governments in the country towards entrenching transparency and accountability in the polity. ICAN Registrar/Chief Executive, Ahmed Kumshe, said that members of the Institute have contributed to national growth and development in the various sectors they operate, both public and private. “Over these years, the Members of the institute had engaged in accountancy practices within the limits of its enabling Act. Specifically, it was members of the Institute that engaged in tax practice right from 1965. The dynamics in the operating environment necessitate that the Act establishing the Institute evolves with current realities. ICAN is therefore seeking an amendment of the Act establishing the Institute to enable our members function more effectively as we continue to act in the public interest,” he said. He stated that the curriculum of the Institute had evolved over the years to accommodate developments in the accounting profession; hence one of the need for the amendment.   Lagos backs economic policy implementation     ‘Nigeria produces 20 million metric tons of maize’     U.S., Nigeria collaborate on food security   - Advertisement - “We have done an extensive review of the current Act, against the backdrop of emerging issues, and identified key areas that have been amended which require the blessings and passage of the National Assembly as well as the assent of Mr. President,” he said. These amendments, ICAN added, would further bring current practices to be in harmony with global standards and international best practices where tax practice as part of accounting practice does not require professional accountants to register with a separate body in order to practice taxation as is the case in United Kingdom, United States, Australia and New Zealand, India, South Africa, Kenya etc just to mention a few countries in international best practice. ICAN refuted allegation that it wants to regulate Tax Practice in Nigeria. “We wish to inform all stakeholders that ICAN does not want to regulate tax practice in Nigeria.  ICAN only seeks its members to continue to practice as they have been doing right from  1965,” it said. “Tax has been an integral part of Accounting right from inception in Nigeria and globally.  Accountants, Lawyers and other skilled professionals practice Tax worldwide and in Nigeria. The calculation of tax starts from profit or loss which accountants determine through financial statement. As shown in (6) above, accountants all over the world, practice Tax without hindrance or being compelled to belong to another professional body to engage in this practice”. “For the avoidance of doubt, we wish to assure other allied Professional Bodies that ICAN is not planning to take over their responsibility, we are only interested in regulating our members practicing the different arms of the Accounting profession as it obtains in other climes”.