Sixty years after it was conceptualised, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo opened a strategic bridge linking the riverine Oporoma, headquarters of the Southern Ijaw Local Government Area, in Bayelsa State. The flag-off, which was held at Angiama community, was preceded by a historic drive on the Yenagoa-Oporoma-Ukubie road, which construction has reached Angiama. Vice Osinbajo commended Governor Diri for continuing the projects that predated his administration, saying the 36km Yenagoa-Oporoma-Ukubie road was significant as it would improve the economy of the people and reduce the incidence of sea piracy. He noted that the partnership between the federal and state governments was working as evidenced in the refund of money spent by the state government on federal roads, assuring that the federal government will continue to support the state to enable it meet its developmental aspirations. Prof. Osinbajo said the rural communities in Southern Ijaw were hosts to the nation’s oil and gas wealth and therefore deserved developmental projects such as the historic road. He said no inclusive prosperity can thrive without linking communities by road and charged the people of Southern Ijaw to take ownership of the project. He also called on people of the state to support the Governor Diri administration to enable it deliver on its mandate.   Outrage as Kenyan teenager accused of stealing radio is…     Buhari returns to Abuja after EU-AU summit in Belgium     2023: Sanwo-Olu rallies support for Tinubu at…   He expressed the optimism that the project would be completed by the governor and urged him to continue to serve the people of the state diligently. He said: “Let me thank my brother, Governor Diri, for inviting me to be part of the second anniversary celebrations and the traditional rulers for the title conferred on me. I also bring you warm greetings from President (Muhammadu) Buhari. I am, of course, very excited to join you for this project. Driving through the road, I appreciate the wonderful gift that nature has bestowed on the state. - Advertisement - “There will be no inclusive prosperity without linking communities by road. So this project is very important. We must commend our dear brother, Governor Diri and his team for continuing with this project that has been on the drawing board for over 60 years. The partnership between the federal and state government is working as evidenced in the refund of money used by the state for federal roads. I assure you of the support of the federal government and that you have not been forgotten. Once more, I congratulate Governor Diri and the beneficiary communities.” In his remarks, Governor Douye Diri described the flag off of the link bridge as significant to the people of Southern Ijaw. Describing the project as a Trunk A federal road, he expressed the readiness of the state government to partner the federal government to ensure the speedy completion of the project. While commending the China Civil Engineering and Construction Company (CCECC) for doing a good job so far, Diri directed the Ministry of Finance and its Works and Infrastructure counterpart to release not less than 70 per cent of the contract sum to the firm to enhance its job. The state’s helmsman thanked the Vice President for finding time out of his right schedule to flag off the project and described him as a lover of the state and a friend of the Niger Delta. He said: “That we are here today is the culmination of the collective prayers, resoluteness and singlemindedness of the people of Bayelsa State and a demonstration of the fact that determination and perseverance can make the most unlikely dream come true. Thank you for joining us to change the trajectory of development of Bayelsa State.” SPONSORED