The Federal Government has approved 286 citizenship applications for foreign nationals who wish to become Nigerians out of the 600 applications it received. Interior Minister Rauf Aregbesola announced this yesterday after the week’s virtual Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. The Federal Government, in 2017, granted citizenship to 335 foreign nationals who had applied for it. But Aregbesola said while 78 of the applicants, who are women of foreign origin but married to Nigerian husbands, would be granted citizenship by registration, the other 208 would be by naturalisation. The minister explained that the 286 applicants are the first set, while another set is expected to be granted citizenship by the middle of the year.   Minister accuses ASUU of blackmail     Sylva: govt will unravel how toxic petrol was imported     NYSC gets NBC’s nod to operate online TV    - Advertisement - “We received 600 applications from several people, foreign nationals who have been residing in Nigeria but desirous of becoming Nigerians. These applicants are from virtually every part of the world: Americans, north and south, Australians, Europeans, Arabs, Asians, all over. “Out of the 600 applicants, the Advisory Committee approved for the consideration of the Council 280. Before the presentation, some agencies of government must scrutinise these applicants. The agencies are: the Department of State Services (DSS), the Foreign Affairs Ministry, the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) and the state of domicile of those individuals. “The state will give us their record of relationship from the community to all the levels in the state to be sure that they are men and women of integrity and good character. It is the accumulation of all of these that the Advisory Committee looked at to shortlist and recommend 280. “Grant of Nigerian citizenship is in two categories. There are those that we consider for naturalisation and there are those we consider for registration. Who are the ones for registration? They are woman married to Nigerians. They are called Naija Wives who, besides having the right of residency and movement without any restriction or without requirement of visa to and fro the country, are desirous of becoming Nigerians. So, they become Nigerians; they get the grant of citizenship by registration. “Whereas foreign nationals who are desirous of becoming Nigerians without necessarily being wives of Nigerians are given citizenship by naturalisation. So, the number of those who are granted Nigerian citizenship by naturalisation through the consideration of their applications is 208, while those who are granted citizenship by registration are 78. “So, today, the FEC approved the grant of citizenship to 208 applicants for naturalisation and 76 applicants for registration, making a total of 286 people out of 600 who applied for our citizenship as eligible to be fully processed through application of oaths and certification thereafter, with renunciation of citizenship that is not acquired by birth,” he said.