IFEANYI: I wish to know if I am a beneficiary of the 2.5 per cent of pension arrears. I retired in April 2012 and my PFA is FGPL. PENCOM: Please be informed that you are not eligible for the 2.5 per cent pension arrears as this took effect from June 2014 when the rates of contributions were reviewed upwards. Thank you. RABIU: I am Rabiu, a retiree of the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC). I wish to inform the office of the Director-General, National Pension Commission that I retired on June 28, 2013 as Station Superintendent 1 on salary Grade level 10 Step 6. I was promoted after verification on July 30, 2012. I will be grateful if you could use your good office to update my record and pay my retirement benefit based on my retired designation. Thank you. PENCOM: Please write to the National Pension Commission stating the subject of your letter as “Promotion after verification”. Also, please, attach relevant documents to validate your complaint. Thank you. GLORYFILL: My name is Gloryfill. The name of my late mother is Mrs Bassey. She worked at the General Hospital, Calabar, Cross River State. She was in active service before her death on May 16, 2014. We have submitted the documents that we were asked, yet no response. Please help us. I don’t know if she had PFA. Thank you. - Advertisement - PENCOM: To enable the commission carry out investigations, please provide your late mother’s details such as name, RSA details as well as the name of the pension fund administrator (pfa). However, we ask: who did you submit documents to? ANNONYMOUS: I want to remain anonymous. I retired on June 2, 2021 and I was told that we were to do online screening. Please when will the screening start and when will I be paid? PENCOM: Please be advised that the online enrolment application went live on September 1, 2021. Please visit  http://www.pencom.gov.ng to initiate the process and then proceed to your pension fund administrator (pfa) for physical verification and enrolment. Thank you. IBRAHEEM: May God continue to bless you for your concern about retirees’ plight. My compliant is that the my accrued right of Batch 51 was paid into PFA accounts since August 31. But up till now, nobody has been called for template so that the money will be paid. Please does reconciliation of an account take that long? Some retirees have been waiting for almost two years without collecting their benefit. PENCOM: Please provide your RSA PIN details as well as your full name to enable the Commission investigate further. BASSEY: My name is Bassey. I retired in 2017 but my benefit has not been paid since then. Kindly help me. PENCOM: Investigations have shown that your retirement benefit has been processed. Please liaise with your Pension Fund Administrator (PFA).   My Participations: Bisi Akande on himself     Is Putin ready to defuse Ukraine crisis?     South’s governors resolute on power shift, says Akeredolu   NNANNA: Good morning, Omobola, My name is Nnanna. l am a contributor with Crusader Sterling Pension. I am a former banker, now in private business. I am 48 years. What is the possibility of accessing funds from my contribution to assist my business? I accessed 25 per cent of my contribution six years ago when l lost my job. Kindly assist. Thanks, and best regards. PENCOM: Please be informed that you cannot access your Retirement Savings Account (RSA) again until you attain 50. Kindly visit your Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) for more information. ANNONYMOUS: Thanks for your platform, which is dedicated to those in distress, allay their fears and express their worries. Please what is responsible for people not getting their lump sum a year after their retirements. This was not the spirit and intent of the Pension Reform Act 2004. Somebody retired in June 2020 and up till now the lump sum has not been paid, and ditto the monthly stipend. What’s going on? PENCOM: Please be informed that a Presidential Approval was recently given for the payment of outstanding pension liabilities under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) and as such, these outstanding pension liabilities are being processed and very soon, payments will be effected. Once payment is effected, you will be contacted by your Pension Fund Administrator (PFA). OKECHUKWU: My name is Okechukwu, a retiree with the Joint Admissions Matriculation Board (JAMB). Since October 2020, my pension has not been paid. Even after I attended the verification in March 2021, my penison was not paid. At present, my landlord has given me quit notice, I cannot feed my children any longer. I am sick and can’t get money for medical treatment. Please I need your intervention. PENCOM: Please forward your Retirement Savings Account (RSA) details; i.e. PIN and Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) for the Commission to investigate further. Thank you. ADEOSUN: My name is Adeosun, a pensioner since 2019. I have not been paid my pension benefit. Kindly help. PENCOM: You are please advised to forward your PIN to the Commission for probe. ADEMOYEWA: Good Day, the Federal Government in July 2021 increased its share from 7.5 per cent to 10 per cent under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) and directed a retrospective payment of arrears from 2014 to its workers. In other words, the 2.5 per cent increment should be paid to its retired workers under the CPS from 2014 to date. But PENCOM is yet to implement this directive for those of us who retired in 2018. Kindly help us out – Dr Ademoyewa.   PENCOM: Please visit your Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) as the payment has been effected from the commission. Thank you.   DADA: President Buhari approved payments of outstanding accrued pension rights for FGN retirees, death benefits and 2.5 per cent increase of monthly pension contributions for FGN employees. Pencom, please when are you paying us the 2.5 per cent? PENCOM: Please forward your full name as well as your RSA PIN details to enable the commission investigate. Thank you.