Poem Review Title: Extraordinary Moments Poet: Mulikat Onipede Lawal Reviewer: Bamigbade Racheal Publisher: OAK Initiative   - Advertisement - Poets employ different techniques in the bid to communicate ideas, information and expression of feelings to their audience. They make use of natural things that human beings can relate with so as to make the poems comprehensive and worthwhile. Thus, it helps to impact on the social and emotional learning of the readers.   Kogi to build first holiday village in Africa     Coca-cola HBC launches global sustainability challenge     A-ARTs rebrands within 10 years   In this poem collection entitled ‘Extraordinary Moments’ by Mulikat Onipede Lawal, the poet connects humanity and spirituality with nature. This 2021 publication of OAK Initiative, the publishing arm of OAK Foundation, a charity organisation aimed at supporting indigent students, widows and the fatherless in Africa, offers the reader 50 poems that express the depth of human nature through its dreams, beliefs, feelings and behaviours. Through this collection, from ‘Sunset and Dawn’ to ‘A Hero?’, Lawal presents her poetic voice to the themes of ‘Nature’, ‘Childhood’, ‘Dream’, ‘Vision’, ‘Hope’ and ‘Spirituality’. The 50 poem collection includes: Sunset and Dawn; Thunder and Rain;  Misery; Hope Comes; Being Alive; Extraordinary Moments; The Miraculous; City Life; Success; Womb of Victory; Rhythms Melodies, and; Your Voice; Music Motion;  Songs of Birds; I Shall Raise My Voice; A Child at Heart; Open Your Eyes; The Learner; The Pool of Wisdom; Humanity; Money; Work and Rest; Holidays; Achievement; Recess; Ghosts or Angels; Keep the Faith; What I Saw; Fire in Your Soul; Ambition; Devil’s Eyes; Seeing Clearly; Blind Nation; Questions; Search; Childhood Joy; Childhood Scars; Innocence; Little One; What is To Come; The Mirror; Reflection; Wrinkles; Soul Mirror; Two Worlds; Bloodshot Eyes; Atonement; O Villain; Pay For Your Sins; A Hero?. One of Lawal’s work of art, ‘Pay For Your Sins’, is a call to action for readers to turn away from their mistakes and embrace a good attitude to influence their community. It reads in part: “Turn away now/Before the cycle of forgiveness/Passes you by and you/Shall no longer be able/To pay for your sins/You can’t always get away/ With everything you do/ Though politician, Civil servant, private worker /Someday, it shall be beyond you /To pay for your sins /And you shall die with /The grief of those you hurt.” With ‘Keep the Faith’, the poet expresses what happens to humans when struggles of life comes, when hopes tend to fade away as if there’s no God. It leaves the readers with a lasting impression that connection of the afterlife with this life is one that can’t be underestimated. The flow of hope from drama is enough to give one the motivation to believe and keep going. “The only moments when /You get to take a flight /To the world beyond reality/And see what could happen /But when you wake up/You are back to the burden/That lies heavily on your neck/Why did you dream then?/It is to help you keep the faith.” The 50 beautiful poems in this collection, arranged creatively and in a captivating manner will prove a good companion and guide, leading the readers into deeper communion with the world of nature in connection with humanity and spirituality so as to become better and be good influence within the immediate community and the world at large.