Fans have sought 17 million tickets for this year’s World Cup finals in Qatar, FIFA said yesterday, making it more than five times over-subscribed. Higher prices being demanded for the best tickets – which cost up to $1,600 for the final – and controversy over Qatar’s bid did not deter followers of the world’s most popular sport. “Fans across the globe have proven their enthusiasm,” FIFA said. Demand was highest from the host country of the November-December event. But FIFA said it had been “inundated” with requests from Argentina, Brazil, England, France, India, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates and the United States. Some 1.8 million tickets were sought just for the final which will be held in the 80,000 seat Lusail stadium on December 18, the world body said.   Salah may face Leicester tomorrow     I’ll invent new dance if Napoli wins title, says Osimhen     2022 Race: Nigeria, Ghana clash fixed for Mar. 27   - Advertisement - Tickets for the game will cost between 605 riyals ($165) – for some Qatari residents – and 5,850 riyals ($1,600). The top price is more than 45 percent higher than best places for the 2018 final in Russia, which was won by France. The cheapest final tickets for international fans are 2,200 riyals ($600), about a third more expensive than last time and some fan groups have complained about the prices. Organisers said about 3.3 million tickets for all games will be available. Qatari residents, including its army of migrant workers, will pay as little as $11 for a ticket to less popular games. FIFA, which hopes to make more than $500 million from tickets, broadcasting rights and other World Cup commercial revenues, said fans who were successful in a computer lottery would be told by March 8. After the 20 days of applications closed yesterday, FIFA said it will check applications before tickets are allocated in a computer draw. Qatar has been preparing for 11 years for the first World Cup in the Arab world and the first held in the traditional winter months of the top football nations. The date was moved because of the scorching summer temperatures in the Gulf.