Tube Afrique, organisers of the newly formed award body Tube Awards, announced its call for entry for television content broadcasted between January 1, 2021, and December 31, 2021. The announcement was made at a grand unveiling of the television awards ceremony. The award show, which positions itself as an accelerator for innovation and growth in the television space, listed 27 categories to honour creatives and professionals. The organisers also noted that all programmes are expected to meet the requirements of being via cable, terrestrial, or digital platforms. Compulsorily, entries must have been conceptualised, developed, filmed, and broadcast in one of the regions in Africa. The Tube Afrique also announced that the award ceremony is scheduled to hold in December 2022.   Alaafin’s estranged Queen confirms surgery     Woli Agba laments hike in fish price     Zlatan Ibile flaunts second baby, vows eight more   Veteran film critic and curator, Muritala Sule will lead a robust yet eclectic jury body made up of professionals across all fields it concerns itself has been assembled to oversee the shortlisting of entries. Other members of the jury include Bond Emeruwa, Thando Shozi, Yacouba Traore, Mohammed Ahed Bensouda, Bimbo Oloyede, Jahman Anikulapo, Adeola Osunkojo, and Kolapo Olapoju. - Advertisement - Niran Adedokun, an entertainment journalist cum author, PR practitioner, and lawyer, who hatched the idea 20 years ago, explained the strong influence television broadcasting plays in shaping lifestyles and the need to celebrate TV’s finest contributors. “Ultimately, what we watch on TV affects us,” He said in his welcome address. “When television has transcended from that tube in a box which we return to every night into tablets and phones that we hold in our palm, we must then be concerned about the medium that it feeds us. If we are concerned about the content that we consume from television, we must also consider the people who produce that content for us.” He continued: “Nigeria now has over 150 channels. and as the number of outlets increases, so as the number of practitioners. The Tube Award is an avenue for ensuring that those who provide us with content on television have the best of encouragement and build the best of capacity.”