The Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Nsukka Local Government of Enugu State, Mr. Fabian Onah, has said the party is ready for tomorrow’s local government election. He spoke yesterday in Nsukka in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). Onah said the party, having campaigned extensively and vigorously in the 20 wards that made up the area, was optimistic of a landslide victory. “PDP in Nsukka campaigned in all the 20 wards in Nsukka, telling people to vote for our chairmanship and councillorship candidates, so that the council will continue to witness peace and massive development. “During the campaign, residents trooped out in their thousands and promised to vote for the party massively, because PDP has contributed immensely in developing Enugu State to enviable status,” he said. - Advertisement - The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has said it has made deployment of personnel in the 260 electoral wards in Enugu State for the council polls. NSCDC spokesman, Enugu State Command, CSC Danny Iwuchukwu, disclosed this to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in an interview yesterday in Enugu.   Southeast won’t accept vice president, says Ohanaeze     On Okagbare’s ban     ASUU: of slaves and slave drivers   NAN recalls that Enugu State Independent Electoral Commission (ENSIEC) has scheduled elections into the 260 councillorship and 17 council chairmanship positions. Iwuchukwu also said that the command’s patrol teams had been placed on the alert and surveillance. According to him, “we are fully prepared for the council elections and the command has made adequate deployment that covered all 260 political wards and special road patrols for its armed teams.” He said that the command was working in collaboration with the Nigeria Police and the Department of State Services to ensure that adequate security was provided for all. “We urge the good people of Enugu State to troop out en masse and cast their votes without fear of intimidation or favour. “Enugu State has continued to record very peaceful elections at any level and this particular one will not be an exception. “As a command, we have taken proactive steps and made elaborate security plans for the council elections and we believe it will be free, fair and devoid of violence,” he added. NAN recalls that the state government on February 20 declared February 23 a work-free day to enable residents vote in the local government elections.