President Muhammadu Buhari has again reassured Nigerians that his administration will bequeath a stable democracy, revamped military at the expiration of his tenure on May 29, next year. The President spoke last night at a dinner in honour of the 2022 Committee of Business, Political, Media and Civil Society Leaders, held at the State House. He also promised to hand over to his successor a strong, repositioned, agriculture-led and diversified home-grown economy. The President said he was looking forward to completing his tenure in 2023, leaving a legacy for a united, peaceful, and prosperous Nigeria with 24 years of uninterrupted democracy. Assuring Nigerians that his administration will finish strong in the last lap of his tenure, the President said: “I am gradually entering my final year in office. It is a period I intend to spend not only on consolidating on the achievements of the past seven years but also to leave a legacy for a united, peaceful, and prosperous Nigeria. - Advertisement - “I take this initiative to mean that you all intend to collaborate with this administration in that direction.   PDP okays Kolawole as Ekiti candidate     Ogoni clean-up may take more than ten years to complete,…     Borno lost 900,000 houses, 5,000 classrooms to insurgency,…   “For those among you who are politicians, you must look beyond gaining power to how you can leverage public positions in the process of societal change. To the businessmen and women among you, there is great glory in public service. “The question that should be uppermost always is: How do we leverage our business endowment for the greater good of our country? “I am delighted that members of the Nigerian elite have woken up to the fact that the task of changing this society is a task for all of us, whether we are in the private or public sector. Knowing that, we have enormous challenges as a nation, but they are not beyond our capacity to overcome if we embrace a new approach. “We cannot retreat to our ethnic cocoons, nor can we continue to seek solace in our past. We must champion the idea of a Nigeria where every citizen would be proud to call their own. That is the charge before you.” The President, who said he had wished the group had convened earlier, advised them to try and accommodate a few more interests in their next meeting as they take a “deeper dive into our national challenges and proffer workable and sustainable solutions for the near, medium, and long term. “It is our desire to finish strong in the next 16 months and ensure all hands are on deck for the last lap. We are doubling our efforts against all forms of insecurity, equipping our armed forces and strengthening the police. “We are determined to continue the war against corruption and fight poverty, we remain focused on building an all-inclusive economic opportunity for all citizens.”