Sadio Mane scored the winning penalty against Egypt as Senegal lift their first Africa Cup of Nations following a 4-2 a penalty shootout victory over the Pharaohs as Cameroon 2021 drew to a close last night. After both sides scored their first penalties, Mohamed Abdelmonem hit the post with Egypt’s second but Egypt goalkeeper Gabaski then saved from a poor effort from Bouna Sarr. Both sides scored their next penalties, before Edouard Mendy saved a tame spot-kick from Mohamed Lasheen. Sadio Mane then stepped up for Egypt — having already seen a penalty saved by Gabaski in normal time — and made no mistake as he secured Senegal’s first-ever Africa Cup of Nations win. Mane’s Liverpool team-mate Mohamed Salah did not get the chance to take a penalty, with Senegal winning 4-2. The game’s best chance in the opening 90 minutes fell to Mane, but the Liverpool forward missed his seventh-minute spot-kick after Saliou Ciss was fouled in the box. Mane’s penalty was poor in truth, as his blasted effort lacked accuracy and was saved by Gabaski. - Advertisement -   Venezia 0-2 Napoli: Osimhen  thrilled over scoring  returns      Al Hilal 6-1 Al Jazira: Ighalo grabs first  Al-Hilal goal     SUPER EAGLES JOB: No contract yet with Peseiro, says Pinnick   Senegal dominated the ball for most of the match, with Egypt restricted to the occasional counter-attack. Salah struggled to get a foothold in the contest, but did draw a superb save from Mendy mid-way through the first half with a left-footed effort that looked to heading into the top left corner. The second half was mired with tactical fouls, as both sides failed to create any real chances. Gabaski was again called upon to deny Mane, as he smothered a loose ball in the box just as the Senegal man looked to pounce. Senegal substitute Bamba Dieng had a good chance to open to the scoring at the start of extra-time, but his shot under pressure was saved by Gabaski. It was Egypt’s fourth extra-time period of the tournament, after they failed to beat Cameroon, Morocco and Cote d’Ivoire  in normal time.