In January 31, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) finally paid accrued allowances to Super Eagles players, eight days after they had crashed out of their bitter-sweet campaign, at the just concluded African Cup of Nations (AFCON)  in Cameroon. That wasn’t a tale of better late than never.  It was, instead, an ugly but perennial pattern, which should never have been.  Sports authorities must develop a culture and discipline of prompt payment of allowances.  That will ginger the athletes and recharge their commitment and patriotism. On January 4 ahead of the Cameroon championship, Ahmed Musa, Super Eagles captain, told The Punch that the NFF was still owing the team allowances for two past matches.  The captain said the full squad would meet and decide on how to handle the outstanding payments. Yet, at Garoua in northern Cameroon, where the team was based for AFCON group stage matches, they went on to post a Cinderella show with three straight wins — the only side to achieve that feat at the completion of the group matches — before the team’s shocking ouster by Tunisia, at the Round of 16.  Even more than the straight wins, the team’s brilliant and attacking play endeared them to near-everyone. Still, the reward that greeted their heroics was the old dampener: delayed allowances.  A similar incident almost derailed Nigeria’s quest at AFCON 2019 in Egypt.  After gaining quarter-final berth with a match to spare, non-payment of allowances nearly torpedoed further progress. - Advertisement - After players’ protests in the camp and a boycott of a scheduled press conference by the team, the Super Eagles went on to lose to debutants and minnows, Madagascar, in their last group match.  Might that have been the story, yet again, had Nigeria crossed the Tunisia hurdle at Cameroon? It is good that the NFF finally transferred the outstanding allowances.  Sporting Life (February 1) reported that the players, coaches and other back-room staff received US$ 840, 000 in cumulative cash.  That is to be commended.   Among the laggards     Excess bank charges     Rivers floors Fed Govt   But not the delay.  For context: CACOVID, Nigeria’s private sector coalition against COVID-19, by January 26 had delivered on the US$ 80, 000 cash it promised for goals the team scored at the group stages.  CACOVID made the promise at the virtual eve of the competition.   Yet NFF, to which AFCON is a calendarised event, tarried till January 31. This tardiness is not fair on the players who gave up their Yuletide comfort to camp in Abuja, in preparation for AFCON.  More: they endured a psychological block, no thanks to the sudden change of old gaffer, Gernot Rohr, with caretaker coach, Augustine Eguavoen.  Even with that, they delivered limited success. Besides, had the media not cried foul, who knows if those payments would still have been paid by now?  It’s the same odd cycle plaguing Nigerian sports!  It’s a long enduring negative culture that should be broken up forthwith. This umpteenth delay, like old ones, was blamed on the usual bureaucracy.  If the NFF are not in hock for money, they blame delay on payment transfer infrastructure, especially while the body had to liaise with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to send the forex-denominated money. While there are always bottlenecks in any bureaucracy — especially in financial protocols with in-built checks and balances to avert sleaze — more pin-point planning, giving enough time for delays in the process, could eliminate those bottlenecks. Besides, AFCON, the World Cup, Olympic Games, African Women Championship (AWC) have near-rigid timetables.  That normally should guide careful planning.  You just don’t start running helter-skelter for funds (on the eve of each championship); or on how to transfer them (eons after the championship), when other countries are already planning ahead for the next major sporting feast. That, however, appears the ugly culture here; and the net effect is stunting the growth of Nigerian sports and cramping the performance of athletes.  The Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports should fashion out better allowance-management processes with the various sports federations. This call can’t be more urgent or more timely. After the unexpected collapse at Garoua, Cameroon, the Eagles have a titanic task against neighbouring Ghana, to nick one of Africa’s five slots at the World Cup in Qatar, later this year. Let everything be done so that there are no financial distractions in the build-up to that contest. After the setback at AFCON, the World Cup qualifier is a battle that must be won.