Lagos State Government has reiterated its commitment to the implementation of T.H.E.M.E.S agenda as a catalyst for continued development and making Lagos the desired destination for trade and investment. Commissioner, Ministry of Commerce,   Industry and Cooperatives (MCIC) Mrs. Lola Akande noted that Governor Sanwo-Olu’s administration remain committed to economic development programmes that would consolidate the position of Lagos State as the fifth largest economy and largest contributor to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). She spoke during the National Workshop on Raw Materials demand and supply in the Pulp and Paper Mills in Nigeria at the LCCI Conference and Exhibition Centre, Alausa, Ikeja. “As a state government, we will continue to evolve investment friendly policies that would act as catalyst for the development of the various sectors of the economy,” she assured. While addressing the organiser of the national workshop, Akande emphasised the increasing need to grow and develop a viable paper and printing industry for the growth of the economy.   ICAN urges National Assembly to review Act     ‘Nigeria produces 20 million metric tons of maize’     U.S., Nigeria collaborate on food security   - Advertisement - She said: “This Industry in terms if its potential for huge employment generation which is critical to our economic development also plays an important role in the socio- educational sectors of the our dear country.” While addressing the challenges of excessive cost of paper and related products, the commissioner noted continued dependence on importation of papers and related materials has a negative effect on country’s development. She said Nigeria spend a lot of her foreign exchange earnings yearly on paper and related imports, noting that this has a huge strain on the economy. In her words, “Statistics, according to the Chartered Institute of Professional Printers of Nigeria (CIPPON), show that Nigeria spends about N3trillion annually on Paper related imports.” While commending the initiatives and efforts  of organisers of the workshop, the commissioner implored them to proffer workable solutions to the challenges faced by the sector.