Stage names are not just titles artists go by, they are full-fledged brands that serve as a mode of identification for them, however celebrities tend to change their names as their careers progress and their style evolves. Some artists have gone ahead to change their names due to one reason or the other. Here is a list of popular musicians that changed their stage names:   Kiss Daniel, through his manager, announced that he had changed his name to Kizz Daniel in May 2018. - Advertisement - Formerly known as Kiss Daniel, the singer was embroiled in a court battle with his former label, G Worldwide, over a high-profile contract disagreement. He then left G Worldwide to form Flyboy Inc., his own record label. During the legal battle, his ex-label claimed ownership and copyrighted the name ‘Kiss Daniel,’ prompting the artist to go by Kizz Daniel, a name that quickly reflected on his social media sites.    Wizkid has gone through many names in the course of his career. He used to go by the stage name Lil Prince before becoming well-known in the industry. He changed his name to Wizkid when he formally began his music career. Wizkid has been cautious with songs released under the “Wizkid” alias after signing his mega-deal with Sony in 2016, preferring to use the “Starboy” identity, which also symbolises his label. In 2021, he startled followers by changing his Instagram handle to Big Wiz. Despite the fact that the name change isn’t official, many people have already begun to refer to him by that name.    In 2016, musician 2face Idibia declared that he had changed his stage name.  On social media, he introduced his new moniker, 2baba. He went on to say that the name change was not surprising because many people had been calling him “2Baba” for a long time and it was only natural for him to change it now that he is a father “Baba” and a chief (Tafidan Kudandan in Kaduna).   Playing Tinubu in `Last Man Standing’ is scary says Actor…     Many Nigerian men unknowingly married to lesbians – Faith…     Nostalgic Daddy Showkey visits Ajegunle birthplace    Snoop Dogg has had several stage names. Calvin Cordozar Broadus Jr. was his birth name. He used the moniker “Snoop Rock” when he first started rapping, then he changed it to “Snoop Doggy Dogg” and eventually lost the “Doggy.” He changed his name to “Snoop Lion” in 2012 and has recorded music as “DJ Snoopadelic” and “Snoopzilla.”    On Friday, July 20, 2012, Babalola Falemi, a well-known Nigerian singer and songwriter, announced the change of his stage name, Sauce Kid, to ‘Sinzu SMG,’ via his social media page. Sinzu is a talented rapper whose music and swags gained him street fame with the release of his first track, “Omoge,” which featured popular vocalist Mike Okri. The musician, on the other hand, spent two years in jail after he was apprehended for involving in deceitful activities.  Kanye West has performed under his own name since the beginning of his career. Kanye West legally changed his name to “Ye” with no middle or last name in August 2021.    On February 18, the multi-talented singer and songwriter formerly known as ‘Buju’ revealed his rebranding and stage name change to ‘BNXN’, which generated a lot of reactions from his fans. The fast-rising singer made an official announcement regarding the changing of his stage name in a statement on his social media pages accompanied with a video.