There was low voters turnout in the ongoing by-election into Akure North /Akure South Federal constituency seat in the House of Representatives. Voters arrived at many polling units monitored by our reporter in Akure South local government as early as 8 am. Some officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) were seen with sensitive materials being conveyed on motorcycles to their various polling units. Some of the motorcycles were seen driven by policemen. The ruling All Progressives Congress(APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are contending for the seat even though seven political parties fielded candidates for the election. At Ward nine, unit two, voters were seen checking their names being joining the queues to cast their votes. There are, however, 365,088 registered voters in Akure North and Akure South. A former Ondo Commissioner for Justice and Attorneý General, Eyitayo Jegede, who spoke to journalists shortly after he voted complained that agents of the PDP were driven out of polling units in Iju, Akure North local government area. He said he has reported the situation to security agencies. There was no complaints about the functioning of BVAS in many polling units visited. However, the candidate of the APC, Lawson Alade, was booed at his polling unit and almost mobbed by supporters of the PDP.   Presidency: Technocrats drum support for Orji Kalu     NSCDC arrests 40-year-old for allegedly violating step…     BREAKING: Pandemonium as NDLEA operatives storm Lagos Island   He, however, said, there was no problem and hailed the voting process as peaceful. There was tension in Ward nine, unit three, Oba Ile community, Akure North local government when some voters protested presence of Ondo Deputy Governor, Lucky Aiyedatiwa. The protesting voters said the Deputy Governor was not supposed to be seen around the area as he hails from Okitipupa, Ondo South senatorial district. They accused him of distributing money to induce voters. A former Commissioner for Works and member of Ondo SUBEB, Saka Yusuf, said the Deputy was not in the area to distribute money. “He was here. This is not his ward, he is from the south. But as a Senior citizen, he came to monitor the situation. “How can he be distributing money? He only came here to ask me questions and I told him that the election had been peaceful. “The allegation that APC tried to snatch ballot is not true. Those making the claim were only insinuating. Are they afraid? It is a free and fair election. We will not create any crisis,” he said. The Deputy Governor also denied the accusation. He said: “It is not true. How can I go around distributing money? What is my own with that? Anyone that says so should bring evidence where they saw me distributing money. “I live outside Government House. I live among the people, so I don’t live in a Government House for now. So if anybody say they see me, maybe around my area. I don’t understand what they are saying.”