The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Minority Caucus yesterday urged Senate President Ahmad Lawan to declare vacant the seat of Senator Emmanuel Bwacha in the Upper Chamber. The party named Senator Shaibu Isah Lau (Taraba North) as the new Deputy Minority Leader. The post became vacant following the defection of Senator Bwacha (Taraba South) to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). President Muhammadu Buhari, last Thursday, officially received Bwacha into the party at the State House in Abuja. Lawan read a letter from PDP National Chairman, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu, announcing the choice of Senator Lau as the new Deputy Minority Leader of the Upper Chamber. - Advertisement - The letter reads: “Following the defection of Senator Emmanuel Bwacha to the ruling APC, the PDP Senate Caucus has nominated as his replacement, Senator Shuaibu Isa Lau. “Senator Lau is from Taraba State, the North East geo-political zone of the country, where the position has been zoned. “The PDP Senate Caucus has duly informed the national headquarters of the party, in view of which we so communicate to you. “We believe that Senator Lau will be an asset to the leadership of the Senate.” The Senate President officially welcomed Bwacha yesterday on the floor of the Upper Chamber as a member of the ruling APC.   Alleged N2.9b fraud: Court orders EFCC to stop all actions…     Igboho a prisoner of conscience, says lawyer     One dead, soldier shot as Gombe community boils again   Relying on Order 42 of the Senate Rules (Personal Explanation), Bwacha said: “In view of my desire for equal competition, and about my desire to enjoy the full operations of my fundamental human rights, Mr. President, I want to announce this day that it is appointed to me, henceforth, to enjoy free air. “As King Solomon said, there’s a time for everything. Now is a time for me to leave the PDP. I say I have opportunity to breathe freely because of a deliberate isolation and huge division and factionalisation in the party in my state. “I had to leave because I seek to breathe better. This day, I announce henceforth my exit from the Peoples Democratic Party, and to join the governing party because of the visible presence of the party in my senatorial district. “I say this without fear of contradiction that my constituents are happy about this movement because of what they have seen on the ground in Taraba South Senatorial District. “So, we make bold to pay the PDP back by ensuring that better days are ahead for the party in Taraba State.” Lawan had directed Senate Chief Orji Uzor Kalu to take Bwacha to his new seat in the section of the isle reserved for members of the ruling party. Kalu promptly carried out the instruction, even as other members of the minority PDP kicked against the development. Lawan said with the crossing over of Bwacha to the APC, the party now has 70 members in the chamber, while PDP has 38 and Young Progressives Congress (YPP) has one member. George Sekibo’s effort at drawing the attention of the Senate to what he called an abnormality and illegality of Bwacha’s defection ran into a brick wall. He was ruled out of order by the Senate President who alluded to Dr. Ayu’s letter.