Commuters plying the Asaba- Ughelli Expressway were stranded for several hours after a protest by Ovrode Community in Isoko North Local Government Area over alleged neglect of the community. The protesters who besieged the expressway for hours lofted placards with inscription such as, “Ovrode is bleeding,  “No federal and State Government projects in Ovrode Community”,  “Our Grammar school is in a bad shape,  “No teachers and  no chairs”, “No Constituency projects in Ovrode Community,” “Oil exploration in our community since 1963 till date and nothing to show for it.” President General of Ovrode Community,  Mr Felix Efedhoma said: “Both State and Federal Governments have abandoned Ovrode Community despite being an Oil producing Community since 1963 till date. He went on: “Ovrode as an Oil producing Community since 1963 till date, has no federal or state government projects in the community, not even DESOPADEC or NDDC project since 1999 till date.   Five gunned down in Yenagoa cult war     Police arrest two suspected rail vandals in Oyo     APC shifts convention to March 26 amid grumblings   “Ovrode Community is seriously bleeding. No Primary Health Care Center in the community, No portable water to drink,  both Primary and Secondary school in the Community are all dilapidated and no good road network within the community. - Advertisement - “Since two weeks ago that we made the first protest, could you believe that we have not hear from the State or Federal Government.  It was four days back that the Local Government Council Chairman called me and appealed  that he will see what he can do. “Not even a response from the Honourable Member representing Isoko North Constituency at the Delta State House of Assembly. This is to show the height of negligence from the State and Federal Government.” Ovrode Youth Leader Viano Unwe and the community women leader, Mrs Tina Ataibuno, frowned at the poor state of infrastructural development in Ovrode Community, noting that, they will continue the protest until relevant authorities listens to them. SPONSORED