President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday approved Mohammed Bello-Koko as the substantive Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA). Bello-Koko’s confirmation came on a day the former suspended Chief Executive, Hadiza Bala Usman, was cleared of allegations of impropriety. Bello-Koko has been performing the role of the Managing Director of the nation’s ports in acting capacity since the suspension of the former managing director in May, last year. Prior to his confirmation, Bello-Koko was the Executive Director, Finance and Administration of the NPA. His confirmation was relayed in a statement by the Director of Press and Public Relations of the ministry,  Eric Ojiekwe. - Advertisement - The statement reads: “The President and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces, Federal Republic of Niger Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, has approved the appointment of Mr Mohammed Bello-Koko as the substantive Managing Director, Nigerian Ports Authority.   ‘Construction, real estate, others major contributors to…     Xiaomi braces for new challenges     Aregbesola’s thugs fired gunshots without provocation, say…   - Advertisement - “Prior to this appointment, Mr Koko was the Executive Director, Finance and Administration of the Authonty. “This appointment takes immediate effect,” the statement said. The former MD, Usman was suspended over alleged failure to remit N165 billion operating surplus to the coffers of the Federal Government. The ministry explained that the panel was constituted pursuant to the approval and directives of President Buhari, who also approved the suspension of Ms. Usman pending the outcome of the panel’s assignment. The 11-member committee, which looked into the alleged infractions of Ms. Usman, narrowed the allegations to acts of insubordination to Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi. She was accused of ignoring ministerial directives and communicating directly with President Muhammadu Buhari. Ms. Usman was originally suspended by Amaechi over an alleged missing N165 billion but the Committee did not find any evidence in its account reconciliation. The Nation learnt that on presentation of the report to the President, Amaechi sought Buhari’s approval to remove Ms. Usman on the ground of acts of  “insubordination”, the president, it was learnt, however refused to give approval but directed that she should be queried instead. SPONSORED