THREE-YEAR-OLD dispute between Samsung Heavy Industries Nigeria (SHIN) Limited and LADOL Integrated Logistics Free Zone Enterprise ended yesterday with the companies reaffirming partnership. The firms lauded the Federal (Nigeria) and Korean governments for their interventions and resolution of the dispute. In a joint statement issued after signing the settlement agreement in Lagos, both firms also confirmed the existing shareholding structure in their joint venture with  SHIN owning 70 per cent equity and LADOL 30 per cent. They also stated that they had resolved the historic and outstanding issues that are subject of litigations in the Nigerian and international courts. The joint venture between was established when SHIN was awarded the $3.3 billion Egina FPSO project, which required the construction of the fabrication and integration yard to carry out the in-country aspect of the Egina project. - Advertisement - The friction between the two parties, which began in 2018, led to a total breakdown of communications and engagements, resulting in court proceedings in Nigeria and the United Kingdom (UK). The statement reads: “This landmark agreement, which demonstrates SHIN’s ongoing commitment to its subsidiary, SHI-MCI and Nigeria, and LADOL’s commitment to consolidating and continuing the development of LADOL Free Zone to help ensure that Nigeria becomes an African hub for industrialisation, ensures that SHIN and LADOL can work together as shareholders in SHI-MCI.” SHIN and LADOL also welcomed the settlement agreement, which has been approved by the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and the Nigerian Exports Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA), and would also be registered as the judgment in the High Court in London, and the courts in Nigeria.   NNPC subsidiary links scarcity to withdrawal of toxic petrol     Don’t remove Labour from Exclusive List, NLC warns     JAMB shifts UTME registration kickoff by one week   Read Also: N11.79b dispute: Court includes cryptocurrency in Ajetunmobi accounts order They said: “The settlement agreement confirms that the Shareholders’ Agreement between SHIN, SHI-MCI, and MCI FZE Yard Development Limited (MCI), dated July 1, 2014 remains valid, and the current shareholding of SHI-MCI is held in the following proportions: SHIN controls 70 per cent and MCI, 30 per cent. “The settlement agreement also provides for a new sublease agreement which has been executed between SHI-MCI and Global Resources Management Limited (GRML), with the NPA as the head-lessor to GRML. Importantly, the new sublease agreement is long term and is one day less than the term of the head lease between the NPA and GRML.” In the terms of settlement, NEPZA, shall continue to be responsible for the issuance and renewal of SHI-MCI’s Operating Licence as part of its statutory duties and role as administrator of all NEPZA free zone areas. NEPZA had previously issued a licence to SHI-MCI in the form of a National Operating Licence dated October 4, 2021 valid for three years. LADOL Chairman, Mr. Ladi Jadesimi, confirmed that the disagreement between his firm and Samsung has been laid to rest in the interest of the Nigerian economy. Jadesimi said: “This settlement brings to an end the dispute between the LADOL and SHI Groups, which has been lingering for a little while and it became critical that it be sorted out. Now it has been completely resolved.” The Managing Director of SHIN, Mr. Jejin Jeon, also affirmed the settlement. “In recognising that Samsung Heavy Industries (Nigeria) lawfully holds 70 per cent of the shares in SHI-MCI, the settlement acknowledges our extraordinary contribution to the LADOL Free Zone and its role in the economic development of Nigeria,” Jeon said.