The Managing Director of Petrocam Trading Nigeria Limited, Mr. Patrick Ilo, has called on the Federal Government to ensure the full implementation of the Nigeria Gas Policy (NGP) by showing “liberalism.” To this end, Ilo wants the government to ensure that the use of gas is deepened like in advanced countries without paying lip service. Ilo, who made this call at the inauguration of Petrocam’s five metric tonnes solar-powered gas skid Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) outlet in Ejinrin, Epe Division of Lagos State, said: “The government should make conscious efforts in ensuring that we produce more gas locally instead of importing to bring down the price,” adding that payment of Value Added Tax (VAT) on gas import be removed totally.’’ Ilo explained that the company built the LPG gas skid to encourage the use of LPG, particularly in a rural area like Ejirin where most people use firewood to encourage grassroots use of the commodity. He said the company has made it in such a  way that customers could buy as low as one kilogramme of gas from the filling skid outlet. Also, Ilo said the facility brings with it employment opportunities for Ejinrin residents.   Growing uncertainty over energy demand     Boosting power transmission     EKEDC chair assures of improved power supply   On the proliferation of LPG stations in Nigeria, Ilo said: “I’m not sure it’s enough because we have over 200 million people in the country and where we are going is alternative source of energy and it’s not going to depict the ozone layer. The only thing we have to look into is the security concerns and make sure they are properly situated. Like here, we are certified by the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) now Nigerian Midstream Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Agency (NMDPRA) and we got all the documents from  the government, from suitability to approval, to construction, from license to operation. So proliferation does not really matter here and if you look at this environment, we are the first.” At the event was the monarch of Ejinrin, Oba Rafiu Ishola Babatunde Balogun, who expressed his appreciation to Petrocam for bringing such a huge investment to the community. The Chairman, Ikosi-Ejirin Local Council Development Area, Akogun Wale Raji Anomo, described Ejirin as a commercial hub. He added that Petrocam business would boom as there were plans by the government to establish other businesses in the area. He therefore urged more people to invest in the environment.