Restorative Justice Practice is slowly gaining ground in Lagos State as an integral part of the criminal justice system and this column urges other states in the country to quickly follow the example. Restorative justice can be described as an opportunity for the victim of a crime to meet with the offender who has pleaded guilty to the crime and is willing to offer physical and emotional restitution to the victim and others affected by his/her action. This new approach will put the real victim in the driver’s seat, unlike the traditional criminal justice system wherein the state is treated as the victim and receives compensation where applicable, or sends the offender to prison as punishment. So, under the traditional criminal justice system, the real victim feels alienated from the processes since even when the offender admits to have the subject of crime in his custody, the magistrate or judge would order that the stolen item be returned to the state. A training programme in restorative justice shows that it approximates closest to justice in the eyes of the ordinary man, and arguably to what was in practice in the pre-colonial criminal justice system. As part of the introductory process of restorative justice in Lagos State, trainings are going on, and this writer with other certified mediators, was privileged to undergo a rigorous one-week training organised by JSPL Consulting and the Rule of Law and Anti-Corruption (RoLAC) Programme of the British Council, sponsorship by the European Union. Under the guide of very experienced faculty of mediators and arbitrators, led by Akeem Olajide Bello PhD, an associate professor at University of Lagos, Mrs Adeyinka Aroyewun, Director Lagos Multi-Door Court (LMDC), Mrs Achare Cole Deputy Director LMDC, and Mrs Sola Adegbonmire, chartered arbitrator, the mediators were taken through a rigorous training on the philosophical framework and fundamental concepts of restorative justice; interrelationship between the Lagos Criminal Justice System and restorative justice principles; roles, interests and rights of various actors in the restorative justice process; overview of the practice direction on restorative justice and procedural steps on arraignment at a magistrate court, and restorative justice programmes and process. In the introductory remarks, Howard Zehr, described as the grandfather of restorative justice, defined restorative justice as “a process to involve, to the extent possible, those who have a stake in a specific offence to collectively identify and address harms, needs and obligations in order to heal and put things as right as possible.” Robert B. Cormier on his part defined restorative justice as “an approach to justice that focuses on repairing the harm caused by crime while holding the offender responsible for his or her actions, by providing an opportunity for the parties directly affected by crime – victims(s), offender and community – to identify and address their needs in the aftermath of a crime, and seek a resolution that affords healing, reparation and reintegration, and prevent future harm.” - Advertisement - As I have argued on other occasions on this page, the current criminal justice system has substantially failed to give justice to the state, the victim and the accused. The best example as it affects the common man is the tragedy of the so-called awaiting trial men which in some states constitute more than 70% of men and women languishing in jail, which has been rechristened correctional service centres. At the upper echelon of the society, is the fact that while billions of dollars of the Nigerian resources have been stolen over the years, less than 1% of the offenders are in jail.   Aspirants beware     Unvaccinated Southeast     Buhari on state police   So, every state should be interested in this innovative form of criminal justice practice which no doubt will ameliorate the debilitating practice on offer presently. Of course, it must be noted that restorative justice may not deal with serious crimes like murder, rape, armed robbery and the like, but it will help clear the clog of small crimes which also impact the society, and that will help the magistrates and judges concentrate on the big criminal cases. After all, every victim of a crime, regardless of the size will feel alienated and disconsolate when the system fails to give him/her what approximates to justice, for the harm done to him/her. For while a few persons whose item has been stolen by a thief may be assuaged if the offender goes to jail, the majority will rather ask for restitution and perhaps an apology as recompense. Specifically, if a person whose goat has been stolen gets back his goat or the cost of another goat, he will feel better than that the culprit is serving a jail term. Also, the society which is scandalised by such a development would prefer to see the culprit engage in community work that will directly impact them. From the training manual, we see that while in retributive justice the offender accountability is taking punishment, in restorative justice, the offender accountability is understanding impact of crime and helping decide how to make things right. Again, while under retributive justice the system is concerned with purely legal terms, devoid of moral, social, economic and political dimensions, under restorative system, the offence is examined in the whole context of moral, economic and political contexts. Furthermore, while retributive justice does not encourage repentance and forgiveness, restorative justice encourages such possibility. The listed benefits of restorative justice for the victim include that he has opportunity to ask questions about the offender, tell the offender how he feels about his/her actions and what the impact of the crime has been, have his/her input on how to make amends, and understand the motivation for the crime. On the part of the offender, he has opportunity to take responsibility for the offence, have a voice to tell his/her story, hear first-hand the impact of the crime on the victim and community, have an opportunity to apologise to the victim and to put things right by carrying out the agreed actions. The training manual also showed that the Criminal Law of Lagos State 2011 (CLLS) make provisions for using restorative justice processes and outcomes in resolving criminal matters. Furthermore, that Administration of Criminal Justice Repeal and Re-enactment Law 2011 (as amended) (ACJL) make some provisions for restorative justice outcomes. Section 3(1) of the CLLS provides that rehabilitation and restoration is one of the guiding principles that should guide the interpretation and application of the law or any regulations creating offences. The other disposition measures listed in section 15(2) are compensation, restitution, community service orders, probation, curfew orders, binding over orders, rehabilitation and correctional orders, victim-offender mediation and other restorative justice measures. There is no doubt that Restorative Justice Practice will bring a new dimension to criminal justice systems, and I urge other states to key into the programme.