An Enugu High Court presided over by Justice I. N. Okpe on Wednesday admitted into evidence police exhibits on the case of the alleged murder of an Enugu-based makeup artist, Ijeoma Nweke. Recall that the suspects Chiamaka Ifezue and Emeka Ifezue are standing trial for allegedly forcing the deceased to drink a poisonous substance that caused her death. The suspects, who are siblings, allegedly dumped her body at the Maryland axis of Enugu metropolis and poured a corrosive substance suspected to be acid on the carcass. At the resumed hearing, the prosecution counsel, Mrs C. C. Chigbo led the Prosecution Witness 7 (PW7), Sgt. Udeze Oguguo, a police officer, in evidence to tender the exhibits. Oguguo, who is attached to the Independence Layout Police Division, Enugu, said that the exhibits were recovered at the scene of the alleged crime. - Advertisement - The exhibits included five pieces of 20 British pounds, an iPhone 7plus with MTN SIM card, another iPhone device and a blackberry phone. Others are a broken 9Mobile SIM card, itel phone, another black phone (no brand name), MTN SIM pack, makeup tools belonging to the deceased.   Man docked for allegedly defrauding five parents of WASCCE…     Soldier shot, many injured in Gombe clash     OAU student: Police withdraw murder charge against Adedoyin   Also tendered in evidence was the key of a Toyota Metrix Scan with registration number JJJ410BJ which was allegedly used to move the dead body of the deceased from the scene of the crime to where it was dumped. The police officer said that the car which had been parked at the Police Anti-kidnap Formation was no longer in good condition to be moved to the court. He also tendered hard copies of the WhatsApp messages and text messages (SMS) the deceased had with her fiancé and girlfriend respectively while at the scene of the crime. Oguguo also tendered the non-confessional statements of Chiamaka made on Nov. 18, 2020, Nov. 19, 2020, and Jan. 14, 2021, which were all admitted in evidence. He also tendered the non-confessional statement of Chukwuemeka made on Nov. 18, 2020. Meanwhile, the attempts of the defense counsel, Mr Chuma Oguejiofor to persuade the court not to admit some of the items in evidence failed. The matter was adjourned until March 22, 24, and 29, 2022 for the continuation of the trial. (NAN)