The Radiography Registration Board of Nigeria (RRBN) has shutdown 20 illegal medical diagnostic centres in Nasarawa State. Mr Ebere Onwugbuchu, head of Inspection and Monitoring Unit of the board, disclosed the development at the end of a two-day exercise organised to supervise medical diagnostic centres in the state. He said that the exercise was aimed at monitoring the activities of medical diagnostic centres and ensures that they adhered to standard practice. Onwugbuchu said that the centres were shut down for operating without registration, thereby constituting dangers to the society. He said that some of the centres were not registered, while others employed radiographers that were not qualified.   Rotary Club provides sanitary, hygiene kits to 300 school…     NiBUCAA seeks more media support in HIV eradication effort     MeCure revolutionises cancer treatment with modern facility   “The activities of quacks in the profession have led to wrong diagnosis and wrong treatment, thereby, causing health complications and even death. We cannot allow quacks to continue to operate freely and killing people for financial benefits,” Onwugbuchu said. He explained that the board would also carry out similar exercise in other states of the federation to get rid of quackery in the profession. Onwugbuchu had earlier expressed determination to partner the Nasarawa State Government toward ensuring that only professionals and certified radiographers are allowed to practise. He also urged medical facilities in the state to register with the board before they carry out scanning and other radiography activities. Responding during a courtesy call, Ahmed Yahaya, the Nasarawa State Commissioner for Health, expressed gratitude to the board for the visit. The Commissioner said that the Governor Abdullahi Sule-led administration was ready to work with the Federal Government and other partners for better service delivery. He, therefore, promised to assign a desk officer to serve as a link between the state government and the board. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reported that the board visited the Sandagi Medical Centre, the Umma Ultrasound Diagnosis Centre in Lafia and the Tamaiko Medical Centre in Doma Local Government Area. SPONSORED