An 18-year-old girl in Adamawa State has been caught trying to sell a boy she abducted. The girl, Blessing John of Michika Local Government Area, has confessed to abducting 9-year-old Elkanah Samuel with intention to sell him to a pre-arranged buyer. Blessing, an applicant who hails from Unguwan Cashew along Michika General Hospital Road in Michika, said she abducted Elkanah from Michika with intention of selling him in Mubi, a major commercial town in the same northern Adamawa as Michika, so that she could buy a car and a house. Facts on the matter gathered by our correspondents on Sunday, indicated that Elkanah was declared missing last week by his parents and all efforts to find him failed, until on the 21st February when Blessing John was found with him in Mubi. The girl, a neighbour to Elkanah, was said to have concluded arrangement with a buyer in Mubi that she would be bringing the boy to him. But as fate would have it, she called the man’s line on their arrival in Mubi but the line was not reachable.   Rotary Club facilitates release of 35 minors in Kano     Gunmen kill three in Niger, says CP     Fire guts shops at Ladipo market   Thereafter, she boarded a tricycle with the boy to unguwan Kara in Mubi described to her by the man but she could not locate the house of the man. Our correspondent gathered further that she met a particular person and asked him whether he knew the man that she brought the boy to the man after he promised to her that he would buy. The man was said to have immediately mobilised people and reported the matter to police operatives in Mubi who in turn sent signal to Michika divisional police headquarters where the incident was confirmed. When arrested and brought to Michika divisional headquaters with the boy, the girl confessed abducting the boy with an intention of selling him. By full of regrets, Blessing pleaded with the police to forgive her. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in Adamawa State, DSP Suleiman Nguroje, said the girl is being investigated after which she will be charged to court.