Ego and perception are factors responsible for the division in the All Progressives Congress (APC), the ruling party’s Reconciliation Committee said yesterday. Caretaker Committee Chairman Mai Mala Buni also identified a lack of unity, the elevation of personal interest over national interest, and the absence of internal democracy as obstacles to unity and stability. Reconciliation Panel chair Senator Abdullahi Adamu and Buni, who is also Yobe State governor, spoke yesterday during the submission of the report of Reconciliation Panel to the caretaker committee. The duo agreed that the resolution of the crises in state chapters is critical to a peaceful convention on February 26. - Advertisement - The submission of the report tops the list of guidelines set by the party ahead of its National Convention billed for February 26. According to the timetable and schedule of activities for the convention released by the Caretaker Committee, the sale of forms for party offices will commence on February 14. The party plans to consider and adopt reports of state congresses today. The inauguration of the state executives is scheduled for tomorrow. The sale of forms to aspirants for national offices will be on February 14 at the party National Secretariat while submission of completed forms will take place on or before February 19. The caretaker committee fixed the publication of sub-committees for February 19 and screening of aspirants between February 20 and 22. The Screening Appeal Committee will hear and resolve complaints on February 23 while the accreditation of statutory and elected delegates to the National Convention will take place between February 24 and 25. The Convention will hold on February 26. The hearing of complaints arising from the Convention will be conducted on February 28. Adamu, who said the Reconciliation Committee received 47 petitions from aggrieved members, pointed out that the complaints underscored the conflicts in the party.   CBN restructures forex bidding process     Sanwo-Olu hails youths in support of Tinubu’s presidential…     ‘Internal democracy remains APC’s biggest problem’   He said: “Nobody will tell you that political conflicts that are based on ego in some cases, sometimes perception, none of us have control over that. Nobody has. “So, we cannot stop them from bringing their petitions but the first we get, we will do what we can to recommend to the party.” To Adamu, the resolution of the conflicts will enhance stability and pave the way for a peaceful and conducive convention. He said his committee requested more time “because there are still members who are still submitting reports to be treated and the door cannot suddenly be shut against them because they deserved to be heard”. Adamu stressed: “As of today, we still have petitions coming in. People are still trooping in to come and see us. And we cannot in all fairness stop them. But as long as we are there when we get the final report, the first thing about Reconciliation is a work in progress.” Receiving the report on behalf of Buni, former Senate President Ken Nnamani said the reports were timely as the party was preparing for its convention. He said: “As you are all aware, this committee is very important to our collective zeal of recovering, repositioning and rejuvenating our party for us to have a strong, stable and united APC.” Buni said the Caretaker Committee would carefully study the report and implement the same to improve the unity and strength of the party. To foster peace in APC, Buni said the party should attach importance to unity “As you are aware, the party conducted a successful membership registration and revalidation exercise and now proudly has over 40 million members, making APC Africa’s largest political party and Nigeria’s leading party. “With this numerical strength, APC remains the party that can confidently win elections with a landslide victory in all the national elections.” Buni added: “However, despite all the achievements recorded by the party under my stewardship, and the high profile defections into the party, it is very pertinent for the party to promote the philosophy of unity of purpose, to pursue national interests against personal interests and a functional system of internal democracy to have a united, stable and prosperous political party. “Let me once again solicit for your collective support to the caretaker committee for the party to organise a very successful National Convention that will be a stepping stone to the party’s success in the 2023 general election.”