Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike has warned that nobody can undermine the interest of the South in deciding who flies the presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Wike spoke during a meeting of stakeholders of the PDP in Rivers State at Government House in Port Harcourt on Tuesday. The Governor dismissed persons, who claimed that they were consulting stakeholders across the country to declare their interest in the race. He said the south would make a bold statement at the appropriate on their position ahead of the poll. He said: “Please, discountenance anything you’re seeing and hearing, all those social media posts. The South will make a statement very soon. It is not about you’ll be vice president to this or these people are consulting. The day the south makes a statement Nigerians will know that we are not joking. - Advertisement - “It’s not to come out to say you’re consulting. You’re consulting, yet, you’ve declared. Is it not after consultation that you declare? You’ve already declared and you say you’re consulting. What are you consulting again then.   Calabar women traders protest eviction from local market     FG’ll honour promises to ASUU – Buhari     Atiku: I will declare at appropriate time, meets IBB   “And people take the South for granted saying that they are not together. No problems. If we don’t know yesterday, today we know.” The Governor said that Southern Nigeria, and particularly Rivers State, was an enduring asset to the PDP and could not be treated with levity. He said: “We are assets. We are not liability. When we say we are going to support the party we support the party with everything we have. We are not in America where you do television campaign. “When we come out, we will choke them. They know it. So, everybody should relax, let the south do their homework and then they’ll make a proper statement.” Wike explained that since PDP remained an opposition party every member should forge unity within the party, build greater team spirit and protect it from those planning to sow seeds of discord. He said those planning to use money to overwhelm the process of internal democracy and buy off the ticket would be disappointed.