A Yoruba socio-political group, the Yoruba Ronu Group (YRG), has said those engaged in carrying out a campaign of calumny against former Lagos State Governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, in respect of his presidential ambition would fail. It said the unwarranted online media attacks was funded by certain selfish politicians with a view to exploiting the masses by pretending to be fighting their cause. The group said those sponsoring the attacks on Tinubu were from Yoruba extraction. Chairman of the group, Prince Diran Iyantan, in a statement in Akure, warned that those behind the act would live to regret their actions. Iyantan noted that online mischievous posts against Tinubu have become routinous adding that those behind the publications were well known and traceable to certain misguided politicians and fake human right crusaders. - Advertisement - “We have repeatedly stated in our previous releases that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s ambition does not stop other Yoruba or any South West person from aspiring to the same position.   UNIPORT wins 2022 All Nigeria Universities Debate…     BREAKING: Absent Aregbesola loses ward to Oyetola     Five young Nigerians win $5, 000 in social impact…   “We just feel that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has a better chance than anyone else at clinching the position which is the reason for our support for him”. “It is, therefore, sad to see fellow Yoruba persons casting aspersions on the person of Jagaban for flying high the flag of the Yoruba race. Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s interest after leaving office has been to help nurture and consolidate democracy in Nigeria. This, he has done, creditably, well. In addition, he has helped the progressives to attain the power to the country’s presidency”. “We are aware that the stakes are high as the presidential election approaches, and desperate politicians will resort to different gimmicks, basically, to rock the boat. “Those who have committed themselves to a sustained campaign of calumny in the media against the person of Asiwaju Tinubu, the former Governor of Lagos State, will labour in vain and they are well known to us. “We know that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is committed to the victory of the APC in the next year’s presidential election in the country. He is the most popular among the masses. The opposition has respect for him. He is an enigma.” SPONSORED