Minister of Interior Rauf Aregbesola has endorsed the ex-Secretary to Osun State Government Moshood Adeoti as Governor. A statement by Media Adviser to the Minister, Sola Fasure on Monday, explained Aregbesola endorsed Adeoti at Ijebu Ijesa while addressing party members and stakeholders in the state ahead of the All Progressives Congress (APC) primary on Saturday. He noted that the party was back in the hands of true progressives who will work assiduously to win in the July 16 governorship election. Aregbesola alleged that Governor Adegboyega Oyetola’s administration has deviated from the true tenets of APC. He urged party stakeholders to work for the success of Adeoti in Saturday’s shadow poll. - Advertisement - The Minister said: “Anyone who was with us when we started the journey to reclaim Osun for the progressives in 2004 would know we fought very hard for this victory we have today.   I miss you every day, Actress Eniola Badmus remembers mom 18…     Super TV: How killer’s bad SMS English tipped off Ataga’s…     DCP Abba Kyari, four policemen in our custody – NDLEA   “We went through several challenges then but through thick and thin, we were able to succeed. This time around, we will succeed. “We are ready to allow a free flow of the democratic process to interplay here. We are not those who play God. We are resolute about reclaiming our party from those who think they can continue to abuse our legacies or even want us to be second fiddles in the party we worked and laboured for. This is our pride and we will sustain it. “Let me tell you that God is with us. I urge all of our supporters to come all out and back us. Do not have any fears. We are the authentic APC in Osun. “If in Lagos, the governor did not do well and the party decided not to return him for a second term, why can’t it be so in Osun? They know what they have done to us is bad and they want to continue the impunity. We will not accept it. “Do not be disturbed by their threats. Come out en-masse and vote for our aspirant. In Shaa Allah, Adeoti is the next governor of Osun. We should all support him.” Adeoti promised not to disappoint if elected Governor. SPONSORED