Two years after the Idiroko end of the Nigeria/Benin border was shut by the federal government, traders, residents, and business operators are calling on the government to consider reopening the border to save them from hunger and death, reports KUNLE AKINRINADE It was a sunny Monday afternoon at the Idiroko, Ogun State end of the border between Nigeria and the Republic of Benin.  Three women, Bosede Disu, Mary Sidoku and Patricia Onyejekwe, rued their losses since the border was shut by the Muhammadu Buhari administration about two years ago. At the sight of the reporter, the women launched into a protest, soliciting coverage as they expressed their displeasure at the hell that life has become with the continued closure of the border. Disu, a food vendor, whose once thriving business has become history, said she had lost all she ever made from her food business over the years since the border was shut by the Nigerian authorities. “In fact, some of us have died from the shock of the border closure,” she said. “Several others have developed high blood pressure from pressing domestic bills they cannot pay because they have been pushed out of job as a result of the land border closure.” - Advertisement - The mother of four explained that her thriving restaurant had been shut down and she had had to resort to hawking with nothing to show for her daily toil as the traffic of people in and out of the border area has vanished.  Disu said: “I was running a restaurant around the customs border post and people including travellers and traders going to the Benin Republic or coming to Nigeria were largely my customers. ”Like my other colleagues around, I was doing well in the business until two years ago when the Nigerian government announced the closure of land borders with neighbouring countries. ”We have since been thrown into hunger and our children can no longer go to school because we have lost our business and cannot afford to sponsor their education.” She noted that life had returned to communities around other land borders recently reopened by the federal government, asking: “Why has the Nigerian government refused to reopen the Idiroko border when others have since been reopened? “Seme border was shut the same time Idiroko border was closed down, but Seme border and others in the North have since been reopened.   “Residents of the border areas have regained their business groove and life has returned to the areas while the Idiroko border remains shut. We are dying of hunger. “We are appealing to the government to reopen Idiroko border to save us from untimely deaths.” Another trader, Sidoku, explained that she used to run a beverage store until the border was shut two years ago, throwing her into abject poverty. She said: ”I was never lacking when my shop was running. I was selling beverages of different kinds to people going to or coming in from the Republic of Benin, and life was good for me and my family. ”However, my life has become miserable since the closure of the border by the government of this country. I am living from hand to mouth because I have been forced out of business by the unfortunate closure of the border. “My husband, who also was working with a merchant at Igolor Market (Benin Republic) has lost his job and now works as a commercial motorcycle operator with an income that could barely feed us because of shortage of passengers.” “But for God, I would have died. I was recently rushed to a hospital after I took ill and it was discovered that I had developed high blood pressure linked to too much thinking and restlessness; a result of my worries over the joblessness caused by the border closure.” She added. In a familiar tone of despair, Patricia Onyejekwe, an alternative medicine seller, said the border closure had turned her into a beggar as she could no longer feed well. She explained that her shop was shut not long after the border post was closed to human and vehicular movement two years ago. ”My business stopped shortly after the border was shut. People and vehicles were barred from passing through the border post and it affected my business because customers, who were mostly travellers and shoppers, were no longer coming to the border. ”I can no longer feed well. My children are also suffering. As I speak, my eldest daughter, who was to further her studies in a state-owned polytechnic, could not do her registration at the school because I have no money to give her.” She added: “We want the government to save us from extinction by reopening the border at Idiroko. Anything short of that will be catastrophic for business operators who have been largely affected by the border closure.”   Family in anguish over 58-year-old contractor’s…     Spanish court declares Samuel Eto’o father of…     APC govs pressure state chairmen to shift convention   But traders are not the only victims of the border closure. Licensed customs agents have also become distraught over the continuous closure of the border post. Some of the licensed agents were also seen milling around the border area with no customer in sight. Speaking with our correspondent, the chairman of the agents under the aegis of Global Freightforwaders Association of Nigeria, Idiroko Chapter, Alhaji Tajudeen Adetayo, said the hardship from the border closure had become unbearable for his members. ”Border closure in Idiroko has brought hardship to the people in the community, especially we licensed (customs) agents, and it has become unbearable for us,” he said. Adetayo said that despite the loss suffered by his members, they have continued to renew their licences even as they have no patronage or jobs to do with them. He said: ”Despite our business predicament, we are still being compelled to renew our licences every year. But we have no jobs to do because of the border closure, and our lives are nothing to talk about. Our people are dying every day. “I am using this opportunity to call on President Muhammadu Buhari to use his good offices to assist us by reopening the border so that life can return to the community.” It will be recalled that in August 2019, Nigeria closed its land borders with neighbouring Benin, Cameroon, Chad and Niger Republic as part of its efforts to prevent the smuggling of illegal arms, food, and agricultural products to stimulate local production. About 57 borders were subsequently shut across the country as the government intensified steps to limit the influx of contrabands into Nigeria. According to the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Hajiya Zainab Ahmed, the reopening of some of the border posts was in readiness for the operationalisation of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) which was scheduled for January 1, 2021. The Federal Government has since reopened four major land borders, namely Seme, Illela, Maigatari and Mfun in December 2020 while Idiroko remains shut. Adetayo, however, noted that the continued closure of Idiroko border has neither curbed insecurity nor reduced smuggling activities in the border areas. ”They said the border was closed because of insecurity, yet, there is still so much insecurity in the land. Closing the border has also further encouraged smuggling activities more than ever before. “In the first place, if the border was not shut, people would bring in their goods through the land border and pay duties on them. But now, people are smuggling their goods into Nigeria through illegal routes and denying government the duties that should have been paid on such goods. ”If the border is reopened, business will flourish and there will be movement of people and vehicles in and out of Idiroko to the Benin Republic. Hence, I am appealing with the government to reopen the border as that would enable more people in that axis to have jobs. ”President Buhari is the father of the nation. He should order the reopening of the border to save us from untimely deaths.” In November 2019, the Nigeria Customs Service announced a ban on the supply of petroleum products to Nigerians living within 20 kilometres of an international border. The Nation learnt that as a result of the ban on petroleum products and continued border closure, a number of small and medium firms have folded up due to loss of patronage and operational cost. An industrialist, Gboyega Afolabi, lamented that “a number of businesses have shut down because we rely on the Benin market to sell our products. ”The situation is made worse by the ban on movement of petroleum products within the border areas, thereby drastically increasing our operational costs in the last two years. ”While it is true the government is trying to prevent smuggling of arms and ammunition and other contrabands through the land border, the attendant situation looks like someone digging a grave for the enemy while digging several others for himself, because the closure has led to the loss of businesses, jobs and revenue on the part of government and people of Nigeria. There is need for a rethink.” A resident, Olabode Sunton, said he had lost his means of livelihood as he could no longer go to his shop at Igolor Market in Benin Republic. He said: ”I was selling frozen foods and I have a shop in Igolor Market, which has been shut following the border closure because customers are not coming anymore. ”I have since been working as a porter at the nearby Owode Market and life has become miserable for me ever since. “The government should please consider reopening the Idiroko border to save people like us from dying.” SPONSORED