Fidelity Bank has facilitated  the  disbursement  of  over  N34  billion  in  direct  credit  to  players  in  the rice  value  chain. The bank’s interventions in recent years have  helped  to  unlock spontaneous financing opportunities for a large swathe of paddy rice farmers  with  significant  contributions  to  the expansion of national paddy rice output. Recently, the bank part-financed the construction of a 400 metric tons per day mega rice mill in Kano State owned by the Gerawa Group of Companies. Managing Director/CEO, Fidelity Bank Plc, Mrs. Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe, said: “Through our interventions in the rice space, we have created positive impact in rural communities by way of farmer empowerment and employment generation. This is also in alignment with the business sustainability imperative of our banking business.”   Binance  restores 79 crypto accounts’ operation after probe     PMI: Private sector expansion sustained in January     Sterling Bank offers N1billion to businesswomen   Mrs. Onyeali-Ikpe stated that the bank financed the construction and installation of several integrated rice mills across various geo-political zones in Nigeria. These rice mills have a combined rice milling capacity in excess of 500,000 MT per annum. - Advertisement - Recognising the importance of the last mile traders in the value chain, she noted: “We have also provided low-cost funds to rice traders to purchase rice from indigenous rice millers for sale to the final consumers. This has helped in stabilising the prices of locally produced rice.” Mrs. Onyeali-Ikpe added that the bank has modelled effective social and environmental sustainability frameworks into its agribusiness deal structuring workflow to address social and environmental sustainability requirements.   This, she adds follows the CBN’s Sustainable Banking Principles and Sector Guideline, IFC Performance Standards and Equator Principles.   The bank’s activities have continued to receive recognition by operators, funding partners and all other actors in the agribusiness space. At the Bankers’ Committee meeting of December 2019, for instance, Fidelity Bank was awarded 2nd position in Sustainable Agriculture Transaction of the year.