Ahead of the 2023 presidential election, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has rallied support for the candidacy of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, ahead of the next general election by showcasing the progressive ideals and transformation championed in Lagos by Tinubu. Sanwo-Olu, at an Executive-Legislative Forum held in Lagos, said Tinubu possesses the competency and magic wand to turn around the nation’s fortunes for the general good. All members of the National Assembly from Lagos, State House of Assembly, the Executive Council, Governance Advisory Council (GAC), and members of the State’s All Progressives Congress (APC) executive are attending the three-day event held at Marriott Hotels in Ikeja, with the theme: “Mobilizing Citizens as a Social Capital Towards 2023 General Elections”. He said: “Let me stress the importance of working together as one family, especially as we approach 2023, which is an all-important electioneering year. There is a whole lot we can achieve together as a united bloc. I enjoin all of us to come together and rally around our leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as he gives the nation’s presidency a shot. ”He has given himself to the good people of Lagos, and now he wants to replicate his progressive ideas at the national level. It is time to pay him back with our unwavering support.  He is, no doubt, the right and best man for the job. He knows the issues plaguing our nation like the back of his hands and he has the magic wand to fix it.”   Family in anguish over 58-year-old contractor’s…     Woman jailed six years for cocaine trafficking     NYSC DG laments dilapidated camp facilities   - Advertisement - Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, said legislators, who are the closest to the people, must give in their best to ensure the executive succeeds. Gbajabiamila, represented by the Leader of Lagos Caucus in the Green Chamber, Hon. Dolapo Badru, described lawmakers as “party’s eyes at the grassroots”, as he urged them to partner with the executives in enhancing development and mobilising people for the party’s success. Speaker of the House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, said the parley would help the participants to bond under a common vision and mission, as well as project beneficial political discussions. Obasa urged the executive and legislature to continue to work together for the progress and development of the State. Leader of GAC, Prince Tajudeen Olusi, stressed the responsibilities imposed on political parties by the Constitution, advising all public officers under the APC to roll out their programmes in line with party manifesto. The forum offered Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu an opportunity to share the strides recorded by his administration in the previous year and jointly review programmes in the pipelines with the delegates for more impactful results. SPONSORED