Aside football, Super Eagles captain Ahmed Musa is a ready reference for altruism due to his sense of empathy towards the plight of others, regardless of ethnic or religious affiliations. The 28-year-old winger is the most capped player in the history of Nigerian football with 104 appearances for the Eagles since his debut in 2011 against Guinea in Conakry. As a football star, he’s changing the narrative about the art of giving and philanthropy in Nigeria. In the past years, his acts of charity have earned the special recognition and words of gratitude from many Nigerians. Some even likened Musa to pop star, David Adeleke, popularly known as Davido who unexpectedly received N200m from fans and friends and added N50million. He then donated the N250million to all orphanages across Nigeria. - Advertisement - Musa has a long history of kindness which he has demonstrated over and over again with his succeeding flow of humanitarian support to people and communities. He has made countless donations and also offered scholarships and other forms of help to alleviate the suffering of the needy.   Abba Kyari: When truth is stranger than fiction     Ikpeazu orders investigation into cattle market invasion by…     Pantami and his professorship   Musa’s latest gesture was his intervention and show of love with the donation of N2 million to 1996 Olympic gold medalist, Kingsley Obiekwu. Obiekwu, a member of the Atlanta ’96 Olympics Gold medal-winning Dream Team, recently opened up on his financial struggles, especially how he uses his only car for commercial transport to sustain his family. The 47-year-old former defender fondly referred to as “Shagari” during his professional stint, played for Rangers International FC, Enugu and Udoji United. Obiekwu has sent words of appreciation to Musa and Nigerians for their support. On how Musa contacted him, he said: “Musa called me and said he had heard my story and that he and his teammates will do something but meanwhile, I should give him my account number and in about an hour’s time, I got an alert of N2 million, I appreciate that a lot.” Obiekwu, who said he was forced to retire at 30 in 2004 due to health reasons, said a number of ex-internationals were passing through hard times, urging them not to be ashamed to speak out instead of dying in silence. He advised active sportsmen and women to save and invest their earnings to avoid running into hitches when they retire. SPONSORED