The newspapers are filled with the upheavals of an unsettled irresponsible greedy, selfish politics which cannot learn lessons. There is no focus on serious problems militating against progress in poor education, poor power supply and security. We are told not to be doomsayers and be optimists. But must we be liars as well, denying the disastrous truth despite the wonderful Second Niger Bridge, new railways and never-ready Lagos Ibadan not-yet-Expressway? We have to be optimists for today’s children and tomorrow’s generations expecting to inherit our part of the earth, ‘Nigeria’, a geographical expression requiring true human federal character for success in the struggle to nationhood. What is life without optimism – that tomorrow we will blossom? Most live in a Nigeria which we, by inheritance, residence, genetically and generationally, call ‘home’. Sadly, too many of us ‘Fellow Nigerians’ have been driven from our ‘home’ by the current prolonged eight-year terrorist violence which too, often appears beyond the capabilities of our armed forces many of whom have paid the supreme price in sacrifice. Zamfara has recently become victim following Kaduna. Also sadly, millions have faced tragedy inflicted by the carefully calculated ‘cow action’ violence requiring curtailing cow movements instead of them having a feeding frenzy destroying the hard work, farm produce and property of Fellow Nigerians. No one should be killed just for being a Nigerian in the farm, road or office in the right place at the right time. The upsurge in attacks  on Ogun-APC and Oyo-PDP roads, particularly the Lagos-Ibadan road should have been pre-empted but have caused a welcome meeting between the governors who have demonstrated exemplary political sagacity as the meeting was problem-solving and not scoring cheap opposing-party points. Oyo State under Governor Makinde has inaugurated the school governing boards for 643 secondary schools. This is implementation and practicalisation of a long-standing suggestion from Educare Trust in 1994 first implemented under the Ajimobi governorship but already a fundamental of any private school. It is important that members of these school boards do not expect payment or honorarium from any interest group in the schools. Rather, they should set ‘Annual Infrastructure and Educational Goals’ and budgets and strategise and seek how to raise additional funds and equipment and contributions in cash and kind. Simple implementation of a regular weekly or monthly Role Model Entrepreneurial Talks for the schools will elevate the intellectual capacity and identify learning targets for the students and even the teachers. Schools are in communities, communities are made up of citizens and small and big businesses, and hospitals and clinics and pharmacies. All of these have professionals who can be put on the list for Role Model Talks in addition to the asking the Parents Teachers Association, PTA and Old Stents Association, OSA, to provide names. The two other school bodies, PTA and OSA, are essential members of the School Governing Board and the three bodies need to be on the same page for rapid progress necessary for the filling of the youth brain with bright ideas and practical steps to achieve such. The task is enormous as many schools do not fit the name ‘school’, falling short in many of the key areas that make a school a UN/MDG/SDG compliant ‘Teacher and Child Healthy and Happy Learning Environment’ available in many more private than public schools though we do hear of some states where the public schools are now so much better that teachers and students prefer the government schools because of better infrastructure and better remuneration. Just like happened in Rwanda.   2022: ‘Not my child’; Pensioners fund fraud’     2022: Anti-thug, anti-kidnapping, anti-ritual,…     Fire; No 2022 ‘Year 4 last lap political paralysis’   - Advertisement - The areas needing school governing boards’ urgent attention are not nuclear physics but simple things and minimum standards and should be tabulated. We mostly went to school here and know what a good school should have as aids to work properly. Every SGB should not be ashamed to ask members and students to contribute to a comprehensive ‘SCHOOL NEEDS LIST’ and then immediately create a 2022 ANNUAL SCHOOL NEEDS LIST’ as follows. Note the headings in capitals… POSTERS, POSTERS, POSTERS. Are you not shamed, like I am, when Nigeria’s bare walled, unstimulating classrooms appear on CNN compared to other countries’ classrooms covered with stimulating posters and pictures? A picture is worth 1000 words except in Nigeria. Library with 1-5 books/student for subject and story books and exam past questions. A short cut would be to invite parents to send in suitable books old and new into each class for a ‘CLASSROOM LIBRARY BOX’. They can take back the books at end of term and send different ones the following term. SPORTS AND GAMES to develop the body and the brain and teach teamwork and coping skills with winning and losing. Schools rarely have enough SPORTS EQUIPMENT from games balls, to javelins or EDUCATIONAL GAMES like scrabble, chess, knowledge games to develop the brain. LABORATORIES- GENERAL SCIENCE, BIOLOGY, PHYSICS, CHEMISTRY -shamefully Nigerian children lack the litmus paper, test tubes, bottle of simple chemicals, magnets, magnifying glasses, The millions of children in Nigeria’s dilapidated schools, not fit for purpose, are Nigeria’s future. They deserve the same educational exposure and practical learning opportunity as other countries’ children in the schools of New York and London. Our oil is now selling at $95 and may reach $100. Let us not waste it on political palaver and adult greed. Seeing our children in rubbish schools, we adults in every political party should be ashamed of ourselves.