The All Progressives Congress (APC) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) have maintained their stronghold in the nation’s seat of power by winning three Council Areas each during the weekend polls. The APC won in Gwagwalada, Kwali and Abaji Council Areas, while the PDP won the Abuja Municipal Council Area (AMAC), Kuje and Bwari Councils. In Kuje, the PDP candidate, Suleman Sabo, polled 13,301 votes to defeat his closest rival, Sarki Hamidu of the APC, who got 7,694 votes. He was declared winner by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Returning Officer for the Kuje Area Council election, Sule Magaji. - Advertisement - In the Gwagwalada Area Council  the APC  candidate, Jubrin Abubakar, a former Chairman of the Council, was returned. According to the INEC Returning Officer, ID Umar, scored 11, 125 votes to beat his Mohammed Kassim of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who got 9, 597 votes. In Bwari Council, PDP candidate John Gabaya was declared winner. INEC Returning Officer Amochi Madu said Gabaya polled  13,045 votes, to beat his closest rival, Audi Shekwolo of the APC, who got 7,697 votes. The candidate of the PDP, Christopher Zakka, won in Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC). He polled 1,9302 to beat his APC rival, Murtala Usman, who got 13240.votes He was declared winner by the INEC Returning Officer, Professor Sani Zaka. In Kwali Council, Danladi Chiya of the APC.was declared winner. He defeated Haruna Pai of the PDP.   Maritime security: How sustained naval operations reduced…     Fashola: our road reconstruction progress amid challenges     Bayelsa govt slams Sylva over attacks on Diri’s…   The INEC Returning Officer for Kwali Area Council, Wesley Daniel, said  Chiya, who is the incumbent Chairman, polled 7,646 votes while Mr Pai garnered 7,345 votes. In Abaji Council Area, the APC was declared winner without a particular candidate. INEC returning Officer, Prof Gabriel Mordi, said APC scored 7, 289 votes to defeat the PDP candidate Alhaji Yahaya Garba Gawu, who got 4, 062 votes. Prof Mordi, said the winner will be announced after the determination of the case before the Court in Abuja. APC chairmanship aspirant in the area, Abubakar Umar Abdullahi, has filed a suit before Supreme court, after an FCT High court and Appeal court has nulified his candidature and declared Alhaji Mohammed Angulu Loko, as the authentic chairmanship candidate of APC for the last April 23, 2021 primaries in the area. It was gathered that both the FCT High Court and Appeal has ordered INEC to withdraw Abubakar Umar Abdullahi’s name and replace it with Alhaji Mohammed Angulu Loko, as the APC chairmanship candidate for February, 12 2022 council election in Abaji. The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu, has described the victory of the PDP in the Abuja Municipal Council Polls as “a great omen under my watch as we lead PDP  back to winning ways and rebuilding Nigeria.” In a statement by his media office yesterday, Dr. Ayu said “the promise of a better Nigeria has just been flagged off by the victory at the FCT polls of Saturday, February 12, 2022, adding another seat for the party. The statement reads: “The victory of our great party, the PDP, signposts the promise of a better Nigeria under my watch, leading this team of dedicated and committed party members. “The victory at the FCT polls of Saturday, February 12, 2022, represents a great omen under my watch as we lead PDP  back to winning ways and rebuilding Nigeria. “This victory, which gave us the important Abuja Municipal Area Council, AMAC, is a signal that Nigerians are tired of the woes and hardship of the moment, occasioned by the worsening socio-economic realities of today. “This victory is dedicated to all leaders of our party, particularly the state governors, NEC members, NWC members as well as the millions of party members across the nation. “What we have just achieved in Abuja, the seat of power, will be replicated in Ekiti and Osun State later this year, culminating in our take over of power at the centre next year, to usher in a better, more prosperous and secure Nigeria. “PDP is back to rescue Nigeria and the rescue begins from the seat of power in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory, FCT” SPONSORED