Cubana Group president, Obi Cubana has blamed societal/family pressures for the surge in vices and illegal activities among youths. The billionaire businessman, in a lengthy post on his Instagram page, explained the many ways in which expectations and rules placed on youths by society and their families constantly drive them to engage in varying vices in a bid to fit in. He wrote: “Societal/family pressures are expectations that affect the entire community. Our youths are constantly forced to act and feel a certain way. Society enjoys dictating how our youths should behave. They feel the pressure of fitting into society’s norm. “In a world where we want everything quick, youths are often faced with a lot of pressure from both the society and members of their families. “While the family is fun, it can also be full of tensions. The pressures placed on them to meet certain standards often lead to harmful outcomes. - Advertisement - “Do you know that a lot of youths are undergoing depression because of the pressure and stress created by society and family? Some have resorted to drug abuse and excessive use of alcohol. “Most young people had to leave school just to fend for their families. At a young age, the families are already heaping “unrealistic” responsibilities on them. Young girls are on the streets because they need to send money home. Girls above 30 are expected to settle down in a man’s house especially a “rich man.” Young girls are put under pressure to have this “perfect body”. Same with the boys. “Have you ever wondered who made those rules? The struggle of “fitting in” is becoming more prominent. “There’s literally pressure from every side…Pressure from work to meet a certain target especially in banking systems. Pressure from society to dress or look a certain way. Pressure from school to pass all exams and get a certain grade. Pressure from our local churches to donate for one thing or another. Pressure from friends (peer pressure) and it goes on and on.   Davido inspired me to resume workout – Sarkodie     Olamide welcomes Jayboi, Asake to YBNL     Why my marriage didn’t work, by Mo Abudu   “Even on social media, some are now depressed for not getting a certain amount of likes on their posts. The strength & quality of social networks is not helping at all. “What does this mean for our youths? Depression, sadness, crime, immorality, etc. Continuing, Obi Cubana called for the overhauling of societal norms and values capable of pressurizing youths, especially into illegal activities. He also appealed to parents to quit with the pressure on their wards while also urging the youths to live a life void of pressures from both quarters. “Let’s begin to shift our values. Let’s teach our youths to learn to accept and love themselves. Let’s teach them not to live above their earnings in a bid to belong. Let’s learn to have compassion for one another. “A lot of people are going through stuff. It doesn’t take anything to be kind. Let’s create a society that looks out for another. Let’s learn to accept our youths at every stage they are & teach them contentment. Let’s teach them to know that everybody is running their own race and that someone’s chapter 1 can be another ‘s chapter 6. “Parents, let’s learn to encourage and support our ward through their failures and successes. All these are part of life…that you failed doesn’t mean you are a failure. Let’s teach them that there’s dignity in Labour so that they don’t always look for the easy way out. “Enough of the pressure! Life is short and should be lived without any pressure from either society or the family. Can we all try? May God help us all…….”