The national leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has ignored allegation by a former Ekiti state governor, Mr. Segun Oni, that it sold the party’s ticket for the June 18 governorship election to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Oni and five other aspirants lost the primary election to Mr. Bisi Kolawole, believed to be the preferred candidate of another former Ekiti Governor, Mr. Ayo Fayose. Accusing the PDP National Chairman, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu and Fayose of selling the PDP to the APC, Oni, in a statement on Sunday, described Kolawole as a duplicate copy of the APC governorship candidate in the election. However, despite Oni’s protest, the PDP leadership will be presenting a certificate of return to Kolawole in Abuja today as the party’s standard bearer in the election. Reacting to Oni’s outburst, PDP spokesman Debo Ologunagba, said the former governor must have been misquoted in the media. - Advertisement - According to him, the Ekiti PDP governorship primary conducted last Wednesday, was free, fair and credible. Ologunagba told our correspondent in a telephone interview that the PDP has not received formal complaints from Oni or any other aspirants that contested the primary. Ologunagba said: “As I speak, there is no single petition before the party, either by Mr Oni or any other aspirants in the race.   Ogoni clean-up may take more than ten years to complete,…     Borno lost 900,000 houses, 5,000 classrooms to insurgency,…     Technology can facilitate energy access, transition, says…   “The only communication we received was from Senator Biodun Olujimi informing the party that she withdrew from the primary election before voting commenced. “Mr. Oni is one of our key stakeholders in the party and his is aware of existing dispute resolution channels in the party if he felt aggrieved. “But I must say that the Oni that we know will never make those comments credited to him. I believe that was was quoted out of context.” But despite the denial, the party leadership has set up a reconciliation committee to mediate in the disagreements thrown up by the shadow poll. The nine-member committee is chaired by former Senate President David Mark It will be co-chaired by Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde. Other members are: former Senate President Adolphus Wabara; Mrs. Zainab Kure; Dr. Charles Akitoye; Mr, Sergeant Awuse; Bala Mande; Chief Shuaibu Oyedokun; and Sen. Sanusi Daggash (Secretary). According to Ologunagba, the committee has the mandated of reconciling “all our stakeholders in Ekiti State including all aspirants in the just-concluded  governorship primary election in the state “This is in line with the commitment of the NWC to ensure an amicable resolution of all issues as our party sets for a victorious governorship election in Ekiti State.”