Death by instalment is the fate of residents of many oil exploration communities in the Niger Delta, as a result of the black sooth emanating from the illegal oil refineries operating freely in their communities. A detailed investigative report by this paper shows that security agencies and government officials are allegedly complicit in this business of death for the residents, and it is tragic that the Federal Government has not shown the will to end the nightmare. By several accounts, it is alleged that the top echelons of the military, police, para-military, local vigilante, government officials, civil servants, traditional rulers and community leaders are all neck-deep in the unfolding tragedy. Until the recent tepid effort of Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, the illegal refineries’ operators were operating without any fear in the open, sometimes with the security agencies providing security to their illegal activities. The result is that the city of Port-Harcourt and some adjourning rural communities, which host the illegal refineries are perpetually covered with thick layers of black sooth, and the residents are dying from its effect. What is shocking is that President Muhammadu Buhari and the heads of the various agencies indicted in the operations of the illegal refineries are all keeping mum, as their subordinates use their uniforms and positions to aid the illegal activities they have been employed to prevent. We urge the National Security Adviser to take charge on behalf of the president, and ensure that the various chiefs of the security services, the Inspector-General of Police, the National Commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) are made to hold their subordinates to account, without further delay. Their men who are posted to the areas and who have soiled their hands should be made to account. It should be totally unacceptable that military and policemen sent to the riverine communities should allow or condone the activities of the illegal refinery operators.   Rejecting NHIS patients     Soludo’s promises     Our fallen heroes   The government of Rivers State must do more than it has done to end this madness. While the recent destruction of some illegal refineries by Governor Wike, which was covered by the media has focused the nation’s attention to the debilitating crisis, we urge him to sustain his efforts. Agreed that like every governor he is handicapped by the centralised police powers, he should continue to demand public accountability by the security agencies in the state. - Advertisement - He should also mobilise public opinion, both locally and internationally, to pressurise the Federal Government to hold the security agencies to account. The state government should also mobilise the host communities where these activities are taking place to understand that the activities of the illegal refineries will result in health challenges for them. They must be educated to understand that while there might be temporal financial rewards from the illegal activities, they would pay dearly down the line. On their part, members of the communities affected by the dangerous activities of the illegal refineries should mobilise themselves to demand accountability from the local, state and federal governments. If the organs of the state are derelict over their responsibilities, they should agitate to wake them up. If they organise and push for an end to the activities, those in authority will take action. They can also petition relevant organs of the international community to hold the governments to account. The Federal Government must also take necessary steps to make the business of illegal refinery unattractive. It is a crying shame that our refineries remain comatose, despite the huge resources expended in the past years to get them working. We demand an end to this criminal negligence by government officials.