The Nigerian Cancer Society (NCS), yesterday, disclosed that less than ten 10 cancer treatment machines (radiotherapy machines) are functional across the country. According to NCS, many Nigerians are unable to access lifesaving treatment, hence the increased morbidity and mortality. NCS said this is a major divergence from the recommendation of the World Health Organization (WHO), that Nigeria should have at least 300 radiotherapy machines to cater for its teeming population. The NCS has also launched the #SmokeFreeNollywood campaign, a public digital petition to Nollywood filmmakers to remove tobacco from Nigeria’s film industry. It further decried the widening gap in access to qualitative treatment, especially for persons living in rural areas, with limited access to proper support and care, coupled with rife poverty, ignorance, discrimination, illiteracy etc.   Tukur, Oyebanji, Famodu join board of Fuelmetrics     Ondo APC group insists on rotational agreement for federal…     INEC meets Edo stakeholders, urges massive turnout for…   - Advertisement - The President of the NCS, Dr Adamu Umar, while speaking during a briefing in Abuja to commemorate this year’s World Cancer Day with the theme: “Closing the care gap,” urged the Federal Government to ensure equitable distribution of health infrastructure especially at the primary health care (PHC) level to intensify preventive and regular screening services. He said: “Nigeria, according to the WHO, should have at least 300 cancer treatment machines (radiotherapy machines), as opposed to the less than 10 of such machines that are currently operational in the country, thereby creating a big gap in cancer care to the teaming populace. The gap is further widened, According to Adamu, when we take into consideration the poverty level (above 40 per cent), the percentage of rural dwellers (above 49 per cent) coupled with the lack of comprehensive health coverage through the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) and inadequate budgetary provision for health (5 per cent of consolidated budget as opposed to the agreed 15 per cent by African Union, AU, countries). “We are very delighted that the Federal Government recently introduced a N10 per litre excise duty on soft drinks, the aim of which is to ultimately reduce Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) burden. “Many Nollywood films today contain smoking scenes that glamourise the use of tobacco products such as cigarettes, and Shisha and unconsciously recruit viewers into damaging habits that harm their health. “Tobacco use is the leading cause of cancer. And cancer is responsible for the deaths of 70,000 Nigerians every year. About a third of smokers started this habit through the influence of movies. After all, if their favourite characters are comfortable using tobacco on screen, it feels safe and trendy. But it is not.”