Seun Oloketuyi, the producer of ‘Last Man Standing’, an upcoming biopic of ex-governor of Lagos State, Chief Bola Tinubu, said that the movie was not propaganda. Oloketuyi disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Lagos. He told NAN that the movie was not produced as propaganda for Tinubu. Oloketuyi, who is also the producer of ‘White Lion’, a biopic on Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi, said that making movies was his priority. “When we did ‘The White Lion’, a lot of people said it was propaganda for Yahaya Bello, and I asked them to wait until they see the movie. “It is a movie that seeks to entertain. In entertaining, a lot of history is embedded. “I made up my mind last year that we were going to make some historical movies, apart from this, we are also doing one for the late Adedibu, Alhaji Lateef Jakande and Prof. Peller, all of these will be within the next 12 months.   Actor Saint Obi, estranged wife battle for custody of kids     DJ Cuppy expresses mixed feelings over return to school     Rapper Riky Rick commits suicide after battling depression   “I believe that it is time to bring our stories to life, especially for our children who don’t know these histories,” he said. On difficulties encountered when writing the script, he said it was not an easy task. “We had to change scriptwriters four times, most of the scriptwriters did not even know what happened in 1999, that is the truth. “Even getting books about his time as governor was difficult. I sent some of my people to all the major book stores and they did not have a book on Tinubu. “If it is difficult to get books on a man like Tinubu that is alive, how can we hope to get for those who are no longer with us but are key part of Nigeria’s history and story? That is the gap we are trying to fill with the film,” he said. NAN reports that the plot of the story started when Tinubu became governor and the challenges he faced as a governor. The movie also highlights his academic issues, local government issues, the Fashola debacle, up to the time Muhammadu Buhari became president. (NAN)