The frighteningly unacceptable inference we made at the conclusion of our discussion of political evil last week was the following: “Yet, however, it is horrifying to infer from the foregoing that “political action and doing evil are inevitably linked”, and that “it is incompatible for an action at the same time to conform to the rules of the political art (i.e. achieve political success) and to conform to the rules of ethics.” “It follows that to be an ethical person, we must run as fast as we can from the realm of politics. How soothing is that!” It is frightening because, following its logic, there can be no moral or ethical critique of political actions. Political success requires distancing oneself from ethics. It is unacceptable because it implies that ethically conscious persons must run away from politics with the further inference that politically active persons cannot be ethical. To see why this is unacceptable, we only need a casual look at the raison d’etre, the reason of being, of politics itself. Before that exercise, however, I think I must explain my apparent obsession with this issue. This is the third week that I have examined this matter of the link between politics and morality, starting two weeks ago with “Encountering evil as the storms of life rage” and “Political evil” last week. Today it’s “The poverty of immoral politics.” “What’s the deal?” as Opalaba, my good friend, might ask. The answer is simple. It’s the singular issue that is at the foundation of all our challenges as a nation in distress. And as the Psalmist intoned, “If the foundation is destroyed what can the righteous do?” No matter how they came into being, whether by contract of association, conquest, or colonial imposition, the one constant factor in the longevity and success of nations is respect for justice and fairness and the liberty and wellbeing of citizens. All the Holy Books attest to this with their insistence on righteousness as the means to the uplifting of a nation. Needless to add, these are enduring moral principles. It is true, however, that we have not taken seriously this injunction whether in the way we deal with one another or in the way we approach the business of the state. We fought against the injustice of colonial imposition using these same moral justifications for the justice of our cause. Then, we achieved independence and instead of applying those moral principles to our internal relations, we simply changed position with colonizers while retaining their obnoxious policies of divide and conquer and intolerance of dissenting views. The wedge that the colonizers sought successfully to insert in our body politic, we gladly and effectively retained. It worked the way it was supposed to-a fratricidal war ensued with tragic consequences. At the end of the war, we proclaimed a platitude of “no victor, no vanquished”. But it was only a ruse which, like its predecessor war slogan, “to keep Nigeria one, is a task that must be done”, signified nothing. The war ended with a victor and a vanquished, and the unity of the nation is still aspirational, at best.   APC: Always Postponing Convention     Gusau out, Gusau in     When fiction probes silence, darkness   What has been missing is a moral core that walks the talk of unity in diversity, one that sees others as mirror images of ourselves, that respects their humanity if not their tongue, that recognizes the human need for equal treatment, and one that avoids the temptation to use power for self-aggrandizement. It is quite easy but counter-productive to envision and pursue ethnic dominance in a multi-ethnic state. It’s counter-productive because it sooner or later triggers the same mindset and urge in others. After all, what is good for the goose is equally good for the gander. It’s more difficult but necessary to build together a nation where no one is oppressed and every ethnic or nationality group feels a sense of belonging. Now, to the reason it is unacceptable to have a clean demarcation between politics and morality or ethics, a separation which has been responsible for the missing moral core in our local, state, and national politics. As hinted above, to ask for such a reason is to ask for the raison d’etre of politics. The reason the inference from last week is unacceptable is that ethics and politics are close cousins. Ethics justifies politics and politics enhances ethics. Without a justification founded in ethical principles, political actions are just brute power devoid of authority. I do not deny that it happens even more frequently than one might wish. But that it so happens isn’t justificatory. This is especially true with a republican polity such as we claim to have if not the monarchial traditional polities that our colonizers got rid of. Our republic is founded on the assumption of citizens’ constitutional freedom and equality. For these values to be realized however, citizens must be accorded the means through good education and adequate employment. A system that breeds oligarchs through corruption that reduces ordinary citizens to penury cannot possibly enhance freedom and equality. To that extent it is an unjustified political system. Fidelity to the raison d’etre of politics therefore requires a laser beam focus on the common good, truth-telling and promise keeping, transparency and accountability, fairness in distribution of the benefits and burdens of citizenship, and suppression of selfish interest. This is not asking too much. Rather the foundation of a democratic republic is the proverbial “live and let live” axiom. It is the philosophy of “aparo kan ko ju kan” (literally, no partridge is taller than the other) in the elegant formulation of our people.  With attention and fidelity to these values, even when they face dire situation, citizens can weather it because they know that their leaders are doing their best with honesty and selflessness. That is when shared sacrifice makes sense. In contrast to the foregoing, however, immoral politics requires and selfishly benefits from the elevation of self, family, and in-group, whether ethnic, religious, or class over and above everyone else, neglect of the common good, deception and lying, and promise breaking. Where there is no morally identifiable distinction between citizens, it is unethical and politically unwise to discriminate between them. But that is exactly what immoral politics does. It is unethical because it is detrimental to the pursuit of the common good, which is normally the prerogative of the polity. It is politically unproductive because it jeopardizes the national unity that is so desperately canvassed by mouth only. Furthermore, the immorality of the maxim of immoral politics is discernible from an examination of its strategies. There are two options open to the immoral politician, neither of which shows its moral or political viability. First, the immoral politician may come out openly and transparently about his or her motives and intentions. That is to say, he or she may mount the campaign podium to announce that his or her motivation is to cheat, to oppress citizens, to enrich him or herself while in office and to marginalize ethnic and religious groups that he or she doesn’t belong to. Obviously, such an open confession of intent will backfire: no one will support a transparently immoral politics. Therefore, an openly immoral politician will not succeed. The second option for our hypothetical immoral politician is deception. He or she must have to keep his or her motive and intent close to the chest and pretend to be a do-gooder and pursuer of the common good. But eefin ni iwa (character is smoke); it cannot be hidden for long. You can only deceive some, perhaps, most of the time until it becomes clear to followers. Then they revolt and put an end to immoral politics Most terrifying, however, of the consequence of immoral politics is its corrupting capacity especially because of the impoverishing consequences of its policies and programs.  If it is entrenched enough that every would-be leader practices it, citizens may not see a better alternative than to join them. This is the worst case scenario, where we are in our politics. We have defined immoral politics down and our sense of outrage has been numbed.