Lagos State governor, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, recently commissioned the first Bone-marrow Transplantation centre to provide hope and cure for children born with the sickle cell disease. Gboyega Alaka reports. One in every four Nigerian has the sickle cell gene, making their chances of producing a child with sickle cell significant. About 150,000 children born every year in Nigeria is born with the sickle cell disease; and 100,000 of those children do not live beyond their 5th birthday. The above were some of the statistics reeled out by the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, at the commissioning of the Sickle Cell Foundation Nigeria/Lagos University Teaching Hospital Bone Marrow Transplant Centre held recently at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital campus, Lagos. Sanwo-Olu, represented by his Commissioner of Health, Prof, Akin Abayomi, stressed that these are shocking statistics, adding the sickle cell effects far also outweigh those of COVID-19, which has so far only claimed about a thousand lives in the whole of the country. - Advertisement - “If you put into context, in the entire Nigeria, I think around a thousand have succumbed to COVID; and yet we have a hundred thousand children dying from a disease called sickle cell. Therefore, sickle cell has to become one of the major priorities of this government and of the federal government because it is a significant force that is wiping out our next generation.” The professor of Medicine, who was variously described by speakers at the event as a member of the LUTH community, also stated that “anybody who has managed a sickle cell patient, will know that it is one of the most horrendous diseases that you can have because you are born with it, and you live with it for the rest of your life, and it is a painful illness, which even the doctors and nurses that look after the patients can testify to its agony.” It is on the backdrop of this that he said the Lagos State government deemed it fit to fully support the project, despite LUTH being a federal institution. “LUTH is a part of the ecosystem of Lagos, even though it belongs to the federal government,” he said. Abayomi also had kind words for all who contributed to the realisation of the dream, including oil giant, Chevron Nigeria, which supported it with a whopping N40million. To confirm that Lagos State is not all about words but action as well, compere of the day, Abiodun Famojuro volunteered that, “they support the BMT centre with the sum of N200million.” National Director/CEO, Sickle Cell Foundation Nigeria, Dr. Annette Akinsete, who has been at the forefront of the awareness campaign and care for people living with sickle cell disease in Nigeria as well as this laudable project, said the Bone Marrow Transplantation Centre is a result of 11-year-long effort, which began with a technology transfer-based partnership with the Mediterranean Institute of Technology in Rome, Italy, where nearly 50 Nigerian children went through successful bone marrow transplantation.   Foods that ease menstrual pain for women     ‘How my wife, children and I were attracted to study…     Abiodun to launch Ogun Health Insurance Scheme   Although that laudable programme was abruptly terminated due to funding and other challenges, it nevertheless sowed the seed of determination in the LUTH management, as it “took the bull by the horns and entered into fresh partnership to establish a world-class BMT centre here in Lagos.” She said, “The state-of-the-art facility will be the first ever comprehensive BMT centre for sickle cell disease in sub-Saharan Africa, spanning the entire value chain of the bone transplantation process.” A public private partnership, Akinsete said, “Our technical partners for this programme is the University of Vanderbilt Medical Centre, Tennessee, USA under the  watchful eyes of a supervisory consultant, Dr. Adetola Kazeem, a Nigerian born LUTH Alumnus, distinguished and internationally renowned Professor of Medicine and Haematology as well Head,  Centre of Excellence, the Sickle Cell Disease in Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.” More welcoming, according to Akinsete, is the fact that Nigerians will not “only cease travelling out to access cure, it will in fact be a new dawn for medical tourism into Nigeria, for safe, quality and more affordable Bone Marrow Transplantation.” Founder/Chairman of the Sickle Cell Foundation Nigeria, Prof. Olu Akinyanju OON, commended all who made the centre a reality and expressed hope that “the new facility will help solve a lot of our problems.” The Chief Medical Director, LUTH and chairman of the centre, Prof. Chris Bode, described the project as a “quadripartite collaboration between the Sickle Cell Foundation Nigeria, LUTH, Vanderbilt University, Tennessee, USA and the Lagos State Government.” He described Nigeria as the epicentre of sickle cell disease in Nigeria, with over 2million Nigerians suffering from it and said the event is a testimony to what happens “when people with good mind come together for a common purpose.” He said the governor’s presence in the person of the Honourable Commissioner of Health is a strong indication of his “firm commitment and encouraging gesture to us as an institution, and a testimony  to the fact that LUTH is a part of the Lagos Family.” Prof. Bode said the centre is poised to be the most advanced of its kind in West Africa, as the management would do all it can to make it a training centre for capacity building to benefit other centres. All speakers commended the support of Dr Adetola Kazeem, whose support and supervisory contribution to the centre is invaluable. Prof. Akin Abayomi, who in his closing remarks described Dr. Kazeem as an instance of ‘brain gain’ rather than the much touted ‘brain drain’, also announced that the Lagos State government in its bid to ensure that patients continue to get adequate care, will be establishing sickle cell day-care centres across the ibile zones of Lagos. This, he said, is in recognition of the fact that  patients require prompt professional response once they check into health facilities.