Enugu State Government said yesterday that Wednesday will be a work-free day, as the local government election holds across the state. It said markets, parks and offices would be closed, while movement of people and vehicles would be restricted from 8am to 4pm, except those on essential duties. A statement by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Information, Steve Oruruo, said: “The Enugu State Government (ENSG) wishes to notify the public that local government election will hold on Wednesday across the state. “Consequently, the government has declared a statewide work free day from 8am to 4pm to allow the people exercise their constitutional suffrage. “During this period, markets and offices shall be closed and movement of persons and vehicles restricted, except for those on essential duties. - Advertisement - “Residents legally qualified to vote are therefore encouraged to go to the polls and cast their ballots. “The government, in its unflinching commitment to safeguarding and strengthening our democracy, has made arrangements to guarantee a hitch-free process.” However, the main opposition party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), has promised to void the election through the courts if the Enugu State Independent Electoral Commission (ENSIEC) conducts the exercise without listing its candidates in the ballot. The party, which had raised the alarm over alleged exclusion of its candidates from participating in the election, alleged that it had been stopped from participating because the list of its candidates were not published by the electoral body. It accused ENSIEC of a plot to disenfranchise the party faithful by refusing to publish a list of 260 councillorship and 17 chairmanship candidates it forwarded to the electoral body in December 2021. Addressing the disenfranchised candidates and other party faithful at the state secretariat, Enugu, at the weekend, the state Chairman of APC, Ugochukwu Agballah, said the party would void the election should the electoral body exclude it from participating in the exercise.   Youths hail Dickson as varsity produces maiden graduates     Governors meet Monday over new APC convention date     Uzodimma distributes 2,700 smart phones, cars to youths   He said the legal team of the party, led by a senior advocate of Nigeria (SAN), had filed a suit at the state High Court to void the election for unlawful exclusion, which he noted was a breach of the Constitution and the Electoral Act. He accused the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government of colluding with unscrupulous elements in the APC to manipulate ENSIEC to frustrate APC from participating in the poll. Agballah, who received his certificate of returns from the APC national leadership on February 14, claimed that his emergence as the chairman caused fears within the ranks of the state government and the ruling party He said: “Excluding APC is the greatest mistake by ENSIEC. The electoral body disenfranchised our candidates. We held our primaries to elect our chairmanship and councillorship candidates on December 18 and 19, 2021. We submitted the list to ENSIEC, which it accepted. But ENSIEC decided to publish a list submitted by Ben Nwoye, a former suspended caretaker chairman of APC. ENSIEC knows Nwoye is no longer the chairman. We had written letters to ENSIEC with an avalanche of evidence to show that I’m the duly elected chairman of the APC at our October 16, 2021 state congress.” Enugu State Police Commissioner Mr. Lawal Abubakar has ordered the deployment of personnel and policing resources to ensure a secure and peaceful conduct of local government election. He gave the directive in a statement yesterday in Enugu by spokesman Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Daniel Ndukwe. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Enugu State Independent Electoral Commission (ENSIEC) had scheduled elections into the 260 councillorship and 17 council chairmanship positions for Wednesday. The commissioner said the command was also committed to collaborating with other security agencies, local security outfits and stakeholders to provide security during the period of the elections and beyond. He enjoined residents to remain vigilant, law-abiding and comply with the movement restriction order. “They should report acts of electoral malpractice, violence and criminality to the nearest police station or by calling the command’s emergency hotlines on: 08032003702, 08075390883 or 08086671202; or by sending e-mails to:contact042ppro@gmail.com,” he said. SPONSORED