The newly-elected President of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), Prof Cyril Usifoh, has unveiled a five-point agenda on how he intends to improve healthcare delivery in the country. He spoke at a press conference to announce the forthcoming presidential and fellowship investiture of the PSN, which holds on February 10. While promising to improve the health sector and make it deliver for Nigerians, Usifoh, a professor of pharmaceutical chemistry, said top on his list is the provision of a framework for healthcare that emphasises teamwork so that the competencies and skills of everybody can be harnessed to the benefit of the sector. The PSN chief promised to institutionalise the PharmD (Doctor of Pharmacy) programme and Consultancy Cadre agenda to enhance service potential and catalyse an increase in the ways of hospital and academic pharmacists.   Lagos commits healthcare providers to service charter     ‘Surgery not only option for uterine fibroid’     Hope for children with sickle cell, as LUTH opens first…   He also planned to promote advocacy to fast-track the recognition of community pharmacies as primary care centres in accordance with the National Health Act 2014 and boost local capacity for manufacturing of essential medicines,s including vaccines; while ensuring availability of medicines which cannot be manufactured by the local industry for the health system - Advertisement - In addition, Usifoh vowed to ensure significant improvement in R&D by looking for alternative source of funding apart from government sources to the National Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Development (NIPRID), Faculties of Pharmacies, DRPU Centre for Drug Development and related platforms. “As President, I strongly believe in team work and will ensure that I delegate duties where necessary and monitor the implementation. Within the last two months, we have been able to collaborate with the appropriate agency and community pharmacies are now centres for COVID-19 vaccinations. The Pharmacy Consultancy Cadre has been firmly established. More schools of pharmacy are undergoing accreditation for the PharmD programme. Over the next couple of months, the following issues shall be in front burner under presidency of PSN: Ensure improved relationship with the government (both the executive and legislative) to ensure the right of every Nigerian to pharmaceutical care; institutionalising the PharmD programme; establishment of the National Post-Graduate College of Pharmacists to complement our consultancy cadre agenda, while also working with NAFDAC, PCN and relevant stakeholders; improve visibility of pharmacists and pursuit of the pharmacy tower project and all other business concerns of PSN. “I will provide a purpose-driven leadership for all technical and interest groups of PSN. I hereby solicit your cooperation my dear distinguished members of the fourth Estate of the realm the conscience of the people, guardians, formulators and expressers of the impressions and dispositions of humanity in this journey of improving healthcare delivery to Nigerians, especially with regards to pharmaceutical best practices. As you wild your pens, which are mightier weightier and more effective than the sword, I ask that you remain fair and firm. We hope to find veritable allies in you as we battle to improve the abysmal health indices of our nation.”