The Royal Obi Malize (TROM) Foundation has announced commencement of the TROM University Scholarship starting this year. The Director of Programmes, TROM Foundation, Ms Vanessa Malize, announced the commencement of the TROM University Scholarship starting in 2022. She donated the sum of $1,000 as seed money towards the University scholarship for students of Ukpor for the year 2022. “It is our hope that the work of the TROM Foundation would contribute to the goodness of humanity and spur many others to do more and make the world a better place,” she said. Ms Malize, highlighted the other initiatives by the Foundation designed for immediate roll out. The GirlsInSTEM programme, a Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics initiative for girls, designed to inspire middle school female students’ interest in STEM fields thereby accelerating growth and development in the community; and the TROM Educational Scholarship, a scholarship fund aimed at supporting the educational training of indigent beneficiaries through university education, equipping them for tomorrow’s greatness and future leadership. The foundation recently launched one of its maiden innovative initiatives, The Science Teachers Award & Recognition (STAR Awards) initiative aimed at rewarding exceptional science teachers in secondary schools in Ukpor, Nnewi South LGA. The award presentation event was preceded by the official launch of the foundation, and inaugural lecture with the theme “Accelerating Growth and Development: The Role of Education” held recently in Ukpor, Anambra State. The event was fully covered by the Anambra Broadcasting Services including Television/Radio and Social media Broadcasts. - Advertisement - In his opening remarks, the Founder/Chairman, TROM Foundation, Prince CY Malize noted that the initiative hinged on the fact that great teachers are the backbone of every progressive society and provides a unique platform to appreciate their onerous tasks would help orchestrate the nexus of academic excellence. “The award aims to recognize, encourage, inspire, and reward these exceptional teachers who have gone beyond the ordinary and worked excellently with their students, by imparting them with knowledge, inspiring and nurturing them to learn, to dream, and to achieve” Prince Malize noted.   KPMG: Stanbic IBTC leads in retail, SMEs banking     Fidelity Bank’s GAIM 5 promo winners get cash prizes     TLcom secures maiden $150m pan-African tech fund   In his welcome address the Executive Secretary of TROM Foundation, Prince Greg Malize II noted that the vision of the STAR Awards initiative is to impact the future of the Ukpor community through the promotion of scientific innovation and promotion of academic excellence. “This initiative is driven by the belief that teachers play a unique role in the development of the children of the Ukpor community, as they devote their time to helping children achieve their highest level of competence, moulding them to become future leaders in the national and global stages. By fostering and celebrating the works of our dedicated teachers, we inspire other teachers to follow in their exemplary footsteps, and to continuously build on their excellent foundation” Greg stated. The Royal Obi Malize (TROM) Foundation is a private foundation founded by the Obi Malize family of Umungwu, Ukpor, Nnewi South Local Government area of Anambra State with the primary goals of enhancing educational opportunities for young people, creating, and supporting the access to science and technology as part of its contributions to the larger Ukpor community. The Foundation is founded upon the family’s value for education, passion for philanthropy and commitment to community development. Distinguished attendees at the event were drawn from the State leaders, professionals, policy makers, educational leaders/promoters, philanthropists, religious leaders, traditional leaders, and other influential stakeholders from the community, and Anambra state at large. Dignitaries at the event included Dim Nna O. Nnakife, Chairman of the event and Chairman Board of Trustees Ukpor Improvement Union; Professor Angela Nwammuo, event Keynote Speaker; Professor Chris Anyamene, STAR Awards Advisory Board Chairman; Professor Ada Anyamene, STAR Jury Board Chairman; Chief Ignatius Nwawulu, President General Ukpor Improvement Union; Hon. John Bosco Akaegbobi, Honourable member Anambra State House of Assembly Nnewi South; Mr. Emma Nwachukwu, Member, Advisory Board; Prince Johnchris, Speaker; Princess Vanessa Malize, Senior Project Manager, Amur, Chicago USA; Princess Natasha Malize, Senior Associate, PwC, Atlanta USA; Mrs. Leticia Warren, Ascension Health Morton Grove, Illinois USA, Member Advisory Board; Barrister Mrs Bridget Onwude, Retired Permanent Secretary, Enugu State Government; and other notable personalities from Ukpor and Anambra State. Speaking further, Prince Malize noted that the STAR Award event is designed to provide a platform where experts, thought leaders, and other critical stakeholders within the education system and beyond converge to discuss contemporary issues that advance community development through education, and also reward exceptional science teachers in Mathematics, Physics, Technology, Chemistry & Biology who have consistently made extraordinary impacts in the lives of their students within a specified period of academic circle. The innovative and impactful TROM STAR awards initiative had 5 main award categories including the Best Teacher in Mathematics, Best in Physics, Best in Technology, Best in Chemistry and Best in Biology categories. All eight competing schools in Ukpor LGA, were represented at the event by the school principals and academic board members, the science teachers, and students. The schools were Ebe Unity College, St. Mary’s Assumpta School, Community Secondary School, St. Mary Comprehensive Secondary School, Holy Innocent Secondary School, St. Paul Seminary School, Ukpor High School and Bishop Okoye Memorial Girls Secondary School all in Ukpor. There were 3 stages in the STAR Awards competition: the notification & call for entries stage, the nomination stage and the essay writing and panel defence stages by a total of fifteen teachers who emerged as finalists from the process. The Founder/Chairman, TROM Foundation, Prince CY. C supported by the Past President General, UIU and Group Executive Director, Berkeley Group Plc, Mr. Emma Nwachukwu, led the STAR Award presentation ceremony to the top 5 Science teachers. The awards included a plaque and cash gifts per teacher for the top 5 finalists in the five categories.