The crises rocking the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) took a bigger dimension yesterday as two presidents emerged from the elections held in Benin and Abuja. NBBF has been engulfed in crisis following the decision to suspend the election of new executives by the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development in 2021. In Benin City, the Edo State capital, the elective Congress attended by representatives of FIBA, Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC), and the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, the former president, Engr Ahmadu Musa Kida was returned as the President unanimously polling 37 votes while outgoing Vice President, Babatunde Ogunade beat ex-international Olumide Oyedeji with 30 votes to Oyedeji’s seven votes to returned as the VP. The Benin election was attended by 28 states out of 37 states present at the congress monitored by FIBA represented by Ahmed Elhariri (President of FIBA Zone 5 and member, FIBA Central Board) and Nigeria Olympic Committee’ represented by its second Vice President, Engr Ishaku Tikon. In Abuja, Mark Igoche , the chairman of Mark Mentors Basketball Team, was elected and sworn-in in a congress held at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, along with Osita Nwachukwu as Vice President. - Advertisement - Igoche, the North Central representative in the Abuja NBBF board, polled 11 votes to win the presidency in Abuja while Osita Nwachukwu, representing South East Zone also polled 11 votes to emerge as Vice President.   National  Stadium: Minister assures on  early  completion  …     Odegbami, Omidiran, others to get Sportsville awards     Iwobi’s Everton hires Lampard   Other zonal representatives at the Abuja Congress are; Mohammed Lawal Na’Allah (North West); Ibrahim Gimba (North East), Kingsley Aigbonaga (South South), and Josiah Amedu (South West). Chairman of the electoral committee Suleman Muhammed and vice chairman of the FCT Basketball Association said he was pleased that the election was free and fair in line with the Sports Ministry’s directive. Others on the NBBF Board of the Abuja election are; Stanely Gumut (Players Representative), Tope Oluwosulu (Paramilitary Representative), and Scot Nnaji (Technical/Coaches Representative). Also in Benin, Anambra State Basketball Association Chairman, Ugo Udezue was voted in as the South East representative on the board while Alhaji Abba Kaka got the nod of the North East zone representatives. Surajo Yusuff was elected as the North West representative while Adamu Jalong got the backing of the North West delegates Others swore in include Victor Okoro (Military/Paramilitary), Col Samuel Ahmedu (International Representative), Prof Musa Yakassai (NapherSD). Amongst dignitaries present at the Elective Congress were Mrs. Sebina Chikere (Senior Special Assistant to the Edo State Deputy Governor) who represented the Edo State Government, Ibrahim Adam Iman (Taraba State Commissioner for Youth and Sports Development), Goni Nukar Lawan (Yobe State Commissioner for Youth and Sports Development).