The Owa Obokun Adimula of Ijesaland, Oba Gabriel Adekunle Aromolaran, yesterday endorsed Governor Gboyega Oyetola for a second term. He said the people of Ijesa will back him in appreciation of his modest achievements in the last three years. Oba Aromolaran spoke in his Palace when the governor’s campaign train rolled into  Ijesa-South Federal Constituency. The Minister of Interior, Chief Rauf Aregbesola,  hails from Ilesa. He described Oyetola as a game changer, whose tenure has brought drastic changes to governance. - Advertisement - During the campaign, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftains in Iperindo, Atakumosa East Local Government Area, defected to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Oba Aromolaran commended the governor for turning around the socio-economic fortune of the state, despite the meagre resources at his disposal. The monarch specifically lauded Oyetola for the sustenance of peace in the state since assumption of office. According to him, the State has witnessed geometric progression under Oyetola’s watch, hence, the need to give him a maximum support to succeed in the next governorship election. “I profess to you that you are a new Governor. I know why I said it. I greet you warmly and welcome you into the palace of Owa Obokun Adimula of Ijesaland. Whoever I tell is a governor will become governor. This is a divine gift. “This is not a place to talk long. Message has been passed already. We are going to pay you back. As far as Ijesaland is concerned, we don’t have any other person to vote for, except you. Thousands of aspirants may come out to contest, but you are our anointed candidate, and we are ready to vote massively for you. “Your good works have spoken for you. I commend you for your modest achievements and I am confident that God will reward you. We have seen all you are doing to transform the State. You are doing excellently well. “Please, continue to maintain peace. We don’t want anything that would truncate the relative peace and the peaceful atmosphere in the State. We have warned our children and they are ready to continue to live in peace. “Our support includes peace. We have told our children not to foment trouble. You are doing well to maintain peace. “I pledge on behalf of the Ijesa traditional rulers, sons and daughters that we are resolute to support you and continue to give your Adminstration topmost cooperation and vote for you massively in order to make sure that you are returned elected. “You will be returned. Whoever doesn’t  want can go and hit his head on the floor. We don’t care. We believe strongly that you will win and across the State. I am in full control of Ijesaland and whatever I say is binding on every Ijesa son and daughter as the paramount ruler. “Please, put your mind at rest. We are for you. I know you are for us too, you are our own and nothing can change it. We are very glad that you know our requests.” Oba Aromolaran, who spoke in Yoruba, said:”Ijesha is not known for rascality.”   Nod for Northcentral to produce APC chair     Police, NDLEA rift over Abba Kyari deepens     Lawyer to NDLEA: Parade Abba Kyari with 25kg cocaine,…   He added: “You came for the commissioning of this palace despite your busy schedule. “We can’t be an ingrate to you at the point you need our support, there is no other person to be voted for during the 2022 Osun governorship election other than Oyetola. We don’t give room for rascality in Ijesha land. The support we will give you includes peace. We have warned our wards that they should not get themselves involved in thuggery. “I pledge on behalf of the Ijesha people that we shall give your administration full support to ensure that you win come July 16, 2022. Oyetola is so special to me. I always pray with my whole heart for our governor to be victorious.” The monarch admonished Oyetola to upgrade the College of Education, Ilesha, to a university. The Alamo of Ayegbaju-Ijesa in Atakumosa East Local Government Area, Oba Adeyemi Abideen, lauded Oyetola for running a people-oriented government that has brought drastic change to all sectors. Oba Abideen, who is the Chairman, Council of Traditional Rulers in Atakumosa East Local Government Area, disclosed the readiness of his subjects to work assiduously for the governor’s re-election. He said: “We have held a meeting and we have resolved to vote for you. It is not about sentiment or because you are here today. It is about your personality and what you stand for. You have done well. Governor like you is rare. We are ever ready to support you and work for your return. “You have really tried. No one thought you could do as much as you have done. We thank God for your life. We thank God for giving you wisdom to do great things. We are happy for you. If we don’t know many of your achievements, we are aware of the State of the economy before you came on board and we know what you have done to change the narrative. “You met huge debts with backlog of salary arrears among other challenges, but today, you have not only repaid appreciable percentage but invested hugely in the economy of the State. “You didn’t borrow but you are paying back loans taken by your predecessors. Over 70billion naira has been paid from the debts you met. Indeed,  you have proved your adminstrative prowess and sagacity in the management of the scarce resources. “Don’t be afraid, we are behind you and your government. We are core progressives. This is the party we know. Many can come to us but inside of us, we know where we belong. We are aware of your tremendous achievements over the years. You have given us what we wanted, particularly in Ijesaland. What we want is continuity, not new Governor.” Speaking on behalf of the defectors, Mr. Femi Adanlawo, lauded Oyetola for being committed to the welfare of the people, saying his performance had motivated them to decamp from their former party. Adanlawo who described APC as the only party that cares for the welfare of the masses said their defection would contribute meaningful to the growth and development of the party as they were committed to adding values to the system. He called on the co-defectors to see the party as theirs, noting that the rousing welcome given to them was a sign to the fact that the party meant well for all regardless of background or status. The new members promised to work hand-in-hand with the leadership and members of the party to ensure victory for Governor Oyetola in the primary and governorship election. Addressing the mamonth crowd across the Local Governments of the Federal Constituency, Governor Oyetola urged the party loyalists to be wary of those that are buying membership slips. He expressed confidence in the strengths of the party to elect him at the primary and ensure his emergence at the governorship election. Oyetola implored the party loyalists to keep their membership slips jealously and come out in large number to vote for him as the direct mode has been chosen by the National Secretariat of the party. Meanwhile, a statement by a group, Osun Shall Rise Again (OSRA), through its Chairman and Secretary of the group, Saheed Bakare and Lanre Akeju, respectively, OSRA, raised alarm over influx of hoodlums from neighbouring States, ahead of the All Progressives Congress governorship primary election for Osun State coming up this Saturday. The group alleged that “the Interior minister and former Osun Governor, Rauf Aregbesola, had assembled 3,000 personnel of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, NSCDC, obviously to use them to cause trouble to discredit the election process.” SPONSORED