The Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) has said it released the international passports it seized from former Rivers State Governor Peter Odili in obeying a court judgment of October 18, 2021. NIS’ lawyer Jimoh Adamu told a Federal High Court in Abuja yesterday that Odili’s daughter, Njideka Nwosu-Iheme, a serving judge of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), collected the passports – Numbers A5021427 and B50031305 – for her father on December 20, last year, at the Immigration headquarters in Abuja. Adamu spoke at the resumed hearing in a fundamental rights enforcement suit filed by Odili against the NIS and its Comptroller General. He said although his clients had appealed the court’s October 18, 2021 judgment, it chose to obey the court’s order while still pursuing the appeal. The NIS lawyer filed a motion yesterday in which he exhibited letter of request by Odili and other evidences showing that the former governor collected the passports through his daughter.   Nigeria surviving on extra time, says Sanusi Lamido     Court to hear Nnamdi Kanu’s fundamental rights suit…     JAMB introduces self-registration for UTME/DE applicants   - Advertisement - On realising that the fresh motion was not yet in the court’s file, Justice Inyang Ekwo, before whom the case came up yesterday, suspended proceedings briefly for Adamu to fetch the motion from the court’s registry. At the resumption of proceedings about 20 minutes later, Adamu moved the motion in which he accused Odili’s lawyer, Ifedayo Adedipe (SAN), of misleading the court to issue an order directing the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) to sanction him for allegedly disobeying the court’s earlier order for the release of the passports. He urged the court to vacate the orders made against him and, instead, reprimand Adedipe for misleading it into issuing orders against a person who did not wrong. Adedipe did not oppose Adamu’s motion, following which Justice Ekwo ruled and vacated the orders made against Adamu and his clients on December 21, last year. The judge also set aside the order for N2 million fine imposed on the NIS and its Comptroller General.