The NGX Regulation (NGX RegCo), the self regulatory organisation (SRO) that regulates the Nigerian Exchange (NGX), has clarified that the market regulator and the Exchange do not determine the listing price of companies seeking to list their shares on the Exchange. In a reaction to misconception in some quarters on the roles of NGX RegCo and NGX in the listing of companies’ shares, NGX RegCo stated that there is need to provide clarifications to the public on its function with respect to listing applications, particularly as it relates to the determination of a company’s listing price. Some commentators had raised concerns that NGX RegCo’s due diligence during the listing application review process should have uncovered the listing prices of some companies deemed unreasonably high and intervened accordingly. According to NGX,  a company seeking to list its equity securities on NGX, where the equity securities of the company have not already been listed on NGX, is required to indicate the proposed listing price of the equity securities in its application to list. The company is also required to submit a pricing memorandum, which is a document that details methodologies and assumptions adopted by the copany and its advisers in arriving at the proposed listing price, among other documents.   Vitafoam Group launches first indigenous oil filters     Women have strategic roles to play in nation building, says…     133 new stockbrokers get licences   “In reviewing the listing application, NGX RegCo does not intervene in the proposed listing price, as obtains in some other jurisdictions. However, NGX RegCo reviews the pricing memorandum to understand the basis of arriving at the listing price and to evaluate whether the pricing methodologies and assumptions are based on generally accepted valuation principles. “It is the responsibility of the company and its advisers to determine the listing price using a generally accepted pricing methodology. The listing requirements of NGX do not require NGX RegCo to determine a fair price of equity securities or to fix the listing price for a company.” “As it is well known, one of the functions of an efficient securities market is to determine fair prices of securities through the operation of market forces. Following listing, where the listing price of a company is perceived to be too high or too low, the market price is expected to be appropriately corrected by the market forces of demand and supply to arrive at a fair price as trading commences. “As such, the power is in the hands of investors and their advisers, when transacting in the market, to assess share prices or other securities of companies of interest, and to determine whether the securities are overvalued, undervalued or fairly valued in order to take appropriate positions on the securities. In other words, it is not unusual for investors to view the listing price of an Issuer either with respect or with skepticism, identifying mispricing when it exists and acting accordingly. This corrective action is a hallmark of any free and fair market,” NGXRegCo stated. The SRO assured the investing public of its commitment to promoting the integrity, transparency and efficiency of the capital market, by ensuring that the standards set are effective in maintaining a fair and orderly market where investors are adequately protected.