The Ojo Local Government Area of Lagos has called on eligible voters to proceed to the office of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the council to register and get their Permanent Voters Cards (PVC). This, the council Chairman, Rasulu Idowu, said is important to elect credible people during elections. Idowu told the participants during the sensitisation programme yesterday at Ojo Town Hall, that the PVC is their power against any unpopular government. “Our people need to understand how important the on-going registration and revalidation exercises are. If they do, we would have recorded more than the number of people registered so far. That is the more reason we need to make ensure from time to time we call them out to register. And those who understand want INEC officials bring the exercise to their domain for seamless registration,” he said.   Why petrol scarcity persists, by IPMAN     Philomath Varsity offers scholarships to prospective…     Tinubu visits Ooni, Owa Obokun, gets blessings   The council boss said ward leaders have been mobilised with vehicles on standby to take people to and fro registration centre. “We also made provision for those who want to do the registration online to make it seamless. They will just go to the INEC office for capturing and collect their PVCs,” he said. INEC Electoral Officer in Ojo Local Government Area Sadiq Ayinla said INEC has allocated additional 292 new Polling Units (PUs) to Ojo area. “If these PUs are not populated at the end of this exercise, the new PUs would be tagged Zero PUs and elections will not take place in those units. For this reason, my message is that people should come out and get registered especially into the new PUs. The new PUs are spread throughout the nine Registration Areas (RAs) out of 11 in Ojo Local Government Area. What the commission has done is pasting stickers to the new PUs for awareness. Anywhere you see INEC sticker, it means that place is a new PU. People should come out to register before the window of opportunity elapsed,” Ayinla said.