Akwa Ibom Deputy Governor Moses Ekpo is 80. In this interview with EVELYN OSAGIE, the eminent politician speaks on diverse salient national issues Some people say going back to true federalism is the solution. Do you agree? That is it! We need to practice true federalism. It allows each person his/her rights. Living with each other, being our brother’s keeper as a nation, is what true federalism means. If it was not for true federalism, Nigeria would not even have gotten to this stage. That means that each sector, each group of people has something to offer for the common good of the people. And it was very clear. The West had a lot of money through cocoa. The North had a lot of money through the groundnut pyramids. The East had a lot of money through their palm produce. This is what made Nigeria. We didn’t have oil at that time. These are the resources Nigeria was using, but the law allowed each of them to utilise the resources to the best and the benefit first of his own people. So, it would go round. Whatever contribution they made was to the centre to maintain what was federal – the army and all other things. But, everybody developed their region. We must get back to that era. Now, we are producing oil here and everybody is claiming that oil belongs to Nigeria. But, are you looking at the penury of the people that are in this area that produces the oil? And nothing is happening here. That is what is causing friction because we are not our brothers’ keeper or thinking of the sufferings of these people. We think only of ourselves, perhaps because we are in a position or by population we can aggregate everything to ourselves. That brings me to the civil war. That civil war should have taught Nigeria a lesson, but it did not. And that is why we are where we are at this point in time. A lot of people tried to paint the civil war from various perspectives. I had refused to tell the tale of my experience all along or paint that picture for two reasons. The first is that I am much detribalised. Secondly, I am who I am not because of people from my tribe but people from another tribe. Lateef Jakande and Bisi Onabanjo, who are both late and not from Anang or Ibibio, are people God used to raise me up. - Advertisement - But, why did the civil war not succeed – for a very simple reason that it was selfish! Eastern Nigeria then had the Ibos as the major tribe. The people of Rivers State and my people were the minority. The minorities were the ones that constitute the bulk of the prisoners and detainees and the lot that were killed. Interestingly, I had and still maintain such affinity with the Ibo people. So, if I was going to write a gory story about them, I would be writing about myself. But, what they did wasn’t right. Till today, I still have a majority of my friends and confidants among the Ibos and among the Yorubas. I am a Nigerian. We should regard ourselves as our brother’s keeper as a nation. And that is where Nigeria went wrong. But, that would not deter me or deter this government from believing in the unity of this country. This government, with all that it does and everything it contributes, is to the indivisibility of this country; but let everybody be given their rights. We have to return to the basics. That is why everybody has been anxious about the attempt to amend the constitution with regard to the electoral law. True federalism is also when you elect your people freely. Did working with people like Jakande Lateef and the late Bisi Onabanjo, influence you politically? These are my mentors and remain my models in life. And as I’ve mentioned, through them, I became what I am today. They were good people, fantastic journalists and expert managers. Their mode of operations influenced me, but their politics didn’t. Politically, I don’t think at that time that I knew what it was all about. I know that The Daily Service was an Action Group newspaper, which transformed later into The Daily Express – also an Action Group newspaper. And what that did to me, politically, was that I had an awareness. Both men believed in the party they were serving in and in the leadership of the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo. And we all keyed in there. Their thoroughness influenced me, but personally, their politics didn’t. And that is what journalists should do: they should not be apolitical because you cannot mix both. What were some of the adjustments you made when you decided to go into politics? I didn’t need any adjustment at all. My job probably continues to be that of mobilising opinion, mobilising people and making sure to give my contribution to the development of my people. I am proud to be a journalist and remain so. The versatility as journalists is the reason we can fit into any other sphere of endeavour. They ought to do a bit of everything to be able to fit even into politics. That is what has helped me in life, and when I left journalism for politics.   Why Tinubu should succeed Buhari, by Oladejo     PDP ready to receive new members ahead 2023- Tambuwal     No more impersonators in Rivers APC leadership, says…   I had been a press officer in the Premier’s Office in the days of the Premier of Eastern Region when Michael Okpara was the Premier, I worked in his office. I was also involved in the campaigns of the NCNC as an Information Officer. So, it was not too difficult even after I’ve retired from Federal Public Service. I believed in ideologies. When I retired back home, I looked at the political ideologies and my preferred party was the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP). I was part and parcel of its activity in the state. But, I did not think of vying for any elective office: either as a councillor or chairman because I knew it required money. But, then, I got an invitation from former Akwa Ibom State Governor Godswill Akpabio to serve as a commissioner in the National Population Commission (NPC), which was my first political appointment after retirement. And yet again, like in other fields, my background as a journalist played a vital role. I think I was chosen because that commission also was an enlightenment base for a lot of people. At the end of my tenure, I went on leave to spend time with my son who was living in the United States with his family from where I was invited by the party to be the deputy governor in this present administration. I resisted at first because I was still on holiday and wondered where I would get the money to put into it. But, I was persuaded and I came and here I am. And I have found it very useful and as an opportunity that I am able to offer my service to my people. But, I think I have been able to make my own contribution to what this government has been. Most people say deputy governors are like spare tires that cannot wait to succeed their bosses. What do you think of that: and are you also looking at becoming the governor in the next election? In terms of ambition for succession, it has never crossed my mind. My only job is to assist him to achieve his dream and make sure his vision is carried out. So, what time would I have then to think of being his successor? On the spare tire issue, why is there a need for spare tires? The spare tire plays a very prominent role in the movement of the car. So, when people ascribe the role of deputy governors as spare tires, my interpretation is that these are important people in that system. For a smooth ride, the spare tire is a must-have. I’ve always wondered why there cannot be a very reasonable cordiality between a boss and his deputy. In this, the deputy has a role just as his boss. The deputy’s role is to help his boss achieve what is his conception. Before you accept the job to be part of his regime, you must share in his dream. Now that you’ve been given the job, you feel you should have been the number one – was the idea and vision yours? Given the difference in age between you and the governor, what is your relationship with the governor like? It takes two to tango. And of course, respect begets respect. Age is not in any consideration. I think we operate well because I have a lot of respect for the governor as a man of vision. If we do not have the kind of relationship we have here, then there would be chaos. Our thoughts happen to synchronise: the care for the people, how this state can be improved upon, among others, are uppermost on our hearts. And above all, the fear of God is what is principal. The day number two nurses an ambition to become number one, the place becomes chaotic and who suffers – the people. Can you say your principal has lived up to his vision for the state? I believe he has done that and more. I happen to be the first commissioner for information in this state. Then, Uyo was just a little dot in this mark. If you had been in Uyo 32 or 33 years ago, you probably would have seen the difference and the metamorphosis that it has undergone through the various administrations and particularly what this governor has done. I know what we came to and what we inherited. The vision of the governor was to build on whatever had been established here. And I want to say that quite a lot of what we have done has brought Uyo to where it is. So, when you say he achieved his vision, he has. And by the time his completion agenda comes to an end and he steps out of office in 2023, his dream of making Akwa Ibom better than he met it would have been achieved. Today, his vision to make the state self-sufficient, while changing lives and empowering the people, are already underway. We are now very sufficient in agriculture: we no longer rely on tomatoes, carrots, beans from the North. And I ascribe all glory to God; that we tango very smoothly (Laughs). What is the assurance that the current PDP government in Akwa Ibom State will hand over to another PDP administration? So far, Akwa Ibom has been blessed with good and quality leadership. We need and are so we are praying for a leader with the people at heart, like Emmanuel and others that would continue the good work. Among other developments, Akwa Ibom, particularly the state capital, Uyo, has been peaceful. And the credit goes to the leadership of the government in place, headed by Governor Udom Gabriel Emmanuel who has taken it to where it is. I’m sure the people can see his antecedents by experience. And it is our prayer that the peace we are enjoying here can be sustained and it can only be sustained when there is good governance. And if we find such a man, then Akwa Ibom will become another Mecca in no distant time.