Two persons have died as a result of the explosion of a fuel-laden tanker yesterday. Six others escaped with various degrees of injuries. The explosion occurred in front of CDK Company located a few kilometres away from Sagamu Interchange along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The accident, which occurred at about 6:05 a.m., involved a Mack truck, Howo Sino truck, mini-truck and Bajaj motorcycle. All have no registration numbers. Operatives of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) and Fire Service were seen battling to contain the fire, rescue victims and clear road obstructions. Superintendent Route Commander Florence Okpe, who is the FRSC Public Education Officer for Sector Commander, Ogun Sector Command, Umar Ahmed, attributed the cause of the multiple crashes to overspeeding on the part of one of the trucks. - Advertisement - She said firefighters had put off the fire while traffic had also been diverted to the Ibadan-Lagos section. Also, yesterday, a crash involving a Mazda bus occurred at about 08:20 a.m. at Olumore Bridge, Abeokuta, leaving a lady dead and two other persons – males, with serious injuries.   Bandits kidnap ASUU chair’s relations     Gunmen kidnap 11 Abia council workers     Police rescue 113 children from Kano illegal rehabilitation…   Florence Okpe said the injured victims were taken to General Hospital Abeokuta and the body of the lady was deposited at the same hospital morgue. Three people-two males and a female-had died on Tuesday when a Volkswagen bus rammed into an unmarked truck parked along Lagos- Ibadan Expressway. The accident occurred at the Ogere corridor of the expressway and also left three other people with injuries. The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Ogun State Sector Command attributed the cause of the accident to road obstruction and speed. The FRSC Public Education Officer for Sector Commander, Ogun Sector Command Umar Ahmed Superintendent Route Commander Florence Okpe said the obstruction was caused by the Mack truck that was stationed along the road and the Volkswagen Sharan which lost control due to excessive speed, rammed into it. She explained that the injured victims were taken to General Hospital Isara while the body of the female victim was deposited at FOS Ipara. According to her, other bodies were taken away by members of their families.