Peace Anyiam-Osigwe, the president of the Association of Movie Producers in Nigeria, is enraged with Nigerian lawmakers for deciding that Nollywood is responsible for the rise in rituals. The founder and Chief Executive Officer of Africa Movie Academy Awards, AMAA, took a swipe at Nigerian lawmakers in a worded statement entitled, the Gods are to blame. Anyiam-Osigwe took posited that the lawmakers merely exhibited their ignorance with their submission. “The high level of ignorance exhibited by the members of our house of representatives, in deciding that the fact that our films mirror our societies ills is the reason money-making rituals are on the rise, is inexcusable. Unfortunately, this shows how little our so-called political leaders actually understand the structures with which the Nigerian film industry operates,” she said. Continuing, she said, “Stories abound as to how political aspirants have to swear oaths of allegiance to their godfathers, as prostitutes, who are being trafficked abroad also do.   Who Wants To Be a Millionaire: New sponsors speak on…     Yvonne Nelson opens up on most challenging role     Ex-BBNaija’s Cross: I’m now an ‘Olosho’   - Advertisement - Rather than take cognisance of all these, we all sit down and concentrate on the blame game! Is it not time that we begin to really look at the foundations of what has brought us here? Fraudulent acts mixed with rituals, which is widely referred to as Yahoo plus, is no different from the infamous ritualistic acts, Otokoto, and high-net fraud that reigned supreme in the 90s and early 2000s.” For one, we are one of the few countries in the world that has a censorship board rather than a classification board and our films are made within the ability to get the censorship certificates. However, Anyiam-Osigwe admitted that Nollywood depict rituals in her productions but stressed that most of the stories are derived from actual events. “Do we depict rituals in our films? Yes. Most of our stories are derived from actual events witnessed or reported by the media – and in some cases, told by victims or individuals related to the story or cases. Our eroded value system has a lot to do with the total collapse of our cultural values, in which consumption of material wealth is the evidence of success. Our political structure portrays immediate wealth after or through successfully winning an election by stealing or manipulating votes.” The award-winning filmmaker also blamed the politicians for the youth’s resort to quick and illegal wealth while lamenting on the lawmakers’ inabilities to implement life-changing policies. “In furtherance, our government keeps up the blame game blaming everyone but themselves for the failed country they created. The people whose job is to safeguard us are known to be in cahoot with these so-called ritualists. Our legislators can’t implement policies that will restore dignity to our communities. The politicians are why the youths believe that you can only be wealthy through rituals yet Nollywood that is receiving the bashing is the most successful brand out of Nigeria being Africa’s highest content market plus second in the world.” SPONSORED