Bibliophiles would love the news from the National Librarian, Prof. Chinwe Anunobi: the Federal Government would build 12 National Library prototypes in 12 states! As it is now, four states – Anambra, Delta, Kebbi and Zamfara – lack any National Library presence because, said the National Librarian, they had not indicated interest.  The remaining 32 and the FCT of Abuja have branches, even if many of them occupy temporary offices. She, however, did not list the 12 states where the prototypes were headed, aside from Ilorin in Kwara State where, at a brief ceremony, she kicked off the construction of one of those prototypes; and lauded the Kwara State government for, quoting The Punch, ”providing land for construction of the National Library with minimal cost.” If donation of land is what it takes to spread these facilities to all the 36 states, then the four states with no National Library branches — two in the North and two in the South — should hurry and do the needful.  Expanded access to libraries and allied facilities is a crucial developmental imperative, especially in a milieu that lugs a poor reading culture as our country. At Ilorin, Prof. Anunobi hit the nail right on the head: “I want to emphasise that this is an issue of value system.  We cannot only blame the youth.  We also must blame the parents and the society,” she declared, “because if the society changes its habit: focusing value on knowledge which is hidden in written documents, either in paper or electronic form, the youth will move along that line.” - Advertisement - Indeed; and mainstreaming libraries and expanding access to them, by the federal, states and even the local governments, would nudge the youths closer to the hidden treasures in books.  Still, the phrase “either in paper or electronic forms” underscores how the modern book — and the library that warehouses it — has evolved. These days, books come in all forms: the traditional visual documents as well as audio books.  The traditional library, with its physical stacks (of books and periodicals), has also morphed into an e-format in which, with the punch of a computer keyboard, the pleasure reader or hard-boiled researcher could have assess to multiple e-libraries all over the world, so long as the host library subscribes to the enabling protocols.  That is aside from the free-wheeling World Wide Web that spots a slew of free e-books, especially some classics, which have become royal literatures of global culture.   Shame of a nation     Judicial overhaul     Leading in infamy   That is why the National Library prototypes must follow these latest evolutions in books and libraries for the scheme to have the desired and desirable impact.  For any modern library, digitalisation is crucial.  The era of stand-alone libraries is gone.  Now is the era of multiple libraries wired together for the reading and research pleasures of the readers. Besides, the theory of fun or play-learning is getting replicated, even in this e-age.  The younger elements appear more attracted to electronic platforms — android phones, computers, iPads: and the slew of interactive softwares like Twitter, Facebook, Tik-Tok, etc — in any case, much more than the older generation. Not a few have decried the near-addiction of youths to e-fares, particularly in crime and pornography.  Still, many youths too (as some studies have shown) have navigated their love for e-contents to rediscover their innate love for reading, so much so that they now gorge on tomes of physical books.  But even if some of these youths stay with e-books that widen their knowledge and positively alter their outlook, the society would still be a winner. That again underscores why the new set of national libraries must be designed to follow the latest scholarship and pleasure-reading trends.  But after getting the design right, evangelising for more readers should be perennial. On this score, Prof. Anunobi was again right on the money when she declared at the Ilorin event: “The only way we can do it is to sensitise schools, the public and the hinterland — the hard-to-reach to read.  That is what the National Library is doing.” That is an excellent path that all tiers of government should commit to.  Beyond sucking the youth into national development by boosting the Nigerian reading culture, books and reading assume the role of a national therapy, as the citizens grow older. For the aged, a rich and vibrant reading habit fends off dementia, caused by the progressive decay of the mind, due to its very low exertions, which constant reading can avert.  So, sound investment in libraries may not only boost the reading culture, it might also add the boon of boosting overall national wellness.   SPONSORED