Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), has arrested one Reuben Chibueze, aged 40,for allegedly violating his 16 year-old step daughter. The NSCDC Commandant in Imo, Michael Ogar, said this in Owerri, on Saturday, while parading Chibueze and two others who allegedly committed related crimes. Ogar said that the other two suspects, Amarachi Emmanuel and Chinenye Ejimonye, were arrested for alleged child trafficking and child battering respectively. He said that the suspects, who were arrested based on an intelligence report, were being investigated and would soon be handed over to the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) for onward prosecution. ” We gathered that Mr Chibueze battered his wife severally and sent her away from the house on a fateful evening before proceeding to have carnal knowledge of his stepdaughter, after threatening to stab her if she refused him access to her body.   Ukraine: FG moves to evacuate stranded Nigerians through…     Kinsmen mount pressure on Wike to run for President     NDLEA storms Lagos drug den, arrests kingpin, six others   “Emmanuel, we gathered, collected a large sum of money as payment for trafficking a child while Ejimonye battered her house maid to the extent that the latter jumped down from a storey building out of fear and broke her limb. “Our child trafficking unit has done a good job and we will soon hand the suspects over to NAPTIP “, he said. He called on silent victims of abuse and maltreatment to report to the NSCDC and advised the general public to desist from the act, adding that the law would surely catch up with offenders. Speaking, Mrs Chioma Chibueze, the mother of the rape victim, described her husband as a “serial abuser” and said that he had attempted to rape her daughter two years ago but promised to desist from the act after a failed attempt. Also, 14 year-old Miss Blessing, the alleged victim of physical abuse said that she was an orphan who had been denied access to basic education since moving in to stay with Ejimonye one year ago. “I pray to God to heal my leg and save me from deformity, ” she said.