Over 22,160kg of codeine syrup, methamphetamine and cannabis have been seized at Apapa seaport and a notorious drug den, Akala, in Mushin, Lagos in two major operations in the state by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). The agency’s spokesman, Femi Babafemi, said in a statement yesterday that 14,080kg of codeine syrup and 4,352.43kg of cold caps used to conceal the drugs in a 40-foot container imported from India were intercepted on February 2 at the Apapa port. Also, cannabis imported from Ghana and 3,727.72kg of methamphetamine were seized in an early morning raid at Akala where 17 suspects including five females were arrested on February 3, the spokesman said. Babafemi said the seizure at the Lagos seaport followed intelligence from foreign partners and cooperation of port stakeholders. “At Akala, NDLEA Strike Force operatives in their numbers with support from the military stormed fortified warehouses in the drug den and evacuated bags and bottles of cannabis, loud, skunk, skuchies and methamphetamine as well as 17 suspects for further investigation,” the NDLEA statement said. - Advertisement - The statement added that a female alleged drug kingpin, Mrs. Jemilat Seriki, said to be one of the owners of 12,385 pellets of Loud imported from Ghana and intercepted at Eko Atlantic Beach, Victoria Island, Lagos on November 27, 2021, has been arrested by narcotic officials after weeks of manhunt.   Hoodlums sell hard drugs at bus stops     Woman kills husband’s nephew with knife     How COVID-19 doses saved me from dying, by FCT minister   It reads, “Mrs. Seriki, aka Iya Ilorin admitted being one the owners of the consignments seized, adding that her bags of drugs had ‘Jah Bless’ written on them. When eventually identified and sorted, she has 16 bags with the inscription containing drugs weighing 668.85kg. “In Niger State, a 64-year-old former Divisional Police Officer of Idanre Police station, Ondo State, who was dismissed from service for drug offences, Mr. Monday George Chika, has been arrested with an accomplice, Emmanuel Eniola, 40, with 280 blocks of compressed cannabis weighing 168kg. They were arrested on January 30 in Mokwa, Niger State, after their Toyota Avalon car marked EKY 429 BZ (Lagos) loaded with the substance at Idanre and heading to Kanji, Borgu area of the state was intercepted. “At the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, MMIA, Ikeja Lagos, attempts by some traffickers to export different quantities of Methamphetamine to Brazil and United Kingdom were scuttled by narcotic officers. The first bid was made on Friday 28th Jan. through the SAHCO export shed where operatives intercepted 0.80kg of Meth concealed in relaxer plastic container heading to the UK. A suspect, Akuta Chioma Lucy who presented the consignment for search had been arrested for further investigation. “The second attempt was on Friday 4th February during the outward clearance of passengers at Gate ‘C’ Departure hall of the airport when an intending male passenger on Ethiopian Airline going to Brazil, Onyeaghala Chidi was intercepted with 500grams of Meth concealed inside three plastic hair relaxer containers. Also at the airport, a male passenger, Iliyasu Yushau Yushau, coming from Kampala, Uganda via Nairobi, Kenya was intercepted by operatives with 268 debit cards belonging to Access Bank, GTBank and Zenith Bank, during the inward clearance of passengers on the flight on Sunday 30th January. “In Edo State, operatives on Friday 4th Feb. stormed the Igbogiri forest, Orhionwon LGA and destroyed four dry season Cannabis farms measuring 3.067718 hectares, following the evacuation of 20 bags of compressed blocks of Cannabis weighing 269.5kg stored in a bush at Uzebba, Owan West LGA, the previous day and the arrest of Afadama James, 42, with 348kg cannabis at Owan, Ovia North East LGA on Wednesday 2nd February. Various consignments of hard drugs were also seized in several other parts of the country, Babafemi said.