Show me an unelected official with countless trillions of naira and perhaps billions of dollars to play around with; a so-called number one banker without a bothersome manifesto yet insists on plodding on with the most ambitious development blueprint that has left the elected so-called change government gasping for breath; think of that lone, but nonetheless consequential player without the encumbrances of parliamentary controls being presented as Nigeria’s long-expected messiah and I’ll show you the pathway to the making of a grand delusion. Nigeria’s political delinquency obviously runs deeper than many would care to admit. This, after all is the season of delinquency – and this in full bloom. Year 2023 is around the corner, and like the proverbial reign of knives of various hues and shape on the death of an elephant, all manners of characters have since emerged in the race to the presidential spot as if to suffer the ordinary Nigerian to their chants of distraction. The other day, it was the gubernatorial upstart from the north-central, an individual who’s probably more tolerated for his amusement or more appropriately, nuisance value, than anything else informing Nigerians that he is destined to be the next president! Here is an absentee governor whose state capital not only reeks of filth but seems to have regressed from where Lugard left it more than 100 years ago and whose sojourn in the government house in more than six years has, far from adding value to the state and its people, has taken just about everything in the negative direction. Nigerians surely will get to hear more, not just about the anti-democratic practices of this accidental governor or his reduction of governance to banality, but also of the locust years that he foisted, in due course. Back to Godwin Emefiele. Today, the matter of  is no longer a question of ‘if’ but when the Central Bank of Nigeria, (CBN) governor will finally step out of from the shadows to claim the trophy that those dark forces pushing him believes he’s eminently entitled. Not that it would have mattered had the man himself stepped out of the comfort zone of the cushy job to pursue an ambition which he apparently has long nursed but which if Nigerians had long suspected, have more or less been treated as a kind of joke.  As it appears, the joke may have been on us!   Subsidy? Not a laughing matter     Anomie all the way     Baby Hanifa and other matters   - Advertisement - Yes; Emefiele wants to run. No problem with that. What is problematic is when he prefers to hide behind the fingers- and some dark – forces to proclaim or quite predictably, deny an ambition that bears every hallmark carry of opportunism and greed! Or when as he seems set to do, wilfully converts an office held in trust to further a personal ambition. As an individual that has dispensed not a few favours in the last few years as the number one banker, the man, more than anyone obviously know the best time to cash in on those. There are obviously legions of contractors as indeed other hordes of vested interests already lined up to underwrite the man’s bills whenever he finally makes up his mind. Not forgetting the big boys who have done little else than prey in the foreign exchange market. So, money will not be a problem. If anything, expect Emefiele’s apex bank to have one more problem in unmanageable liquidity. By the way, why should it surprise anyone that Emefiele is being corralled into running? Nature, it said, abhors vacuum. Next to the president and commander-in-chief of the republic, Emefiele of the CBN is probably the most powerful individual in the land today. That he holds the singular distinction of being an unelected governor is not even the issue; think of a single officer holder that could, with a single stroke of the pen, authorise the disbursement of billions of naira of intervention funds without the strictures of a parliament; not even our governors with their exaggerated sense of worth possess such powers. Never mind those high sounding programmes of the Buhari administration, the man, Emefiele – in the absence of an effective fiscal counter-foil from the executive branch – has quite easily become the author and finisher of all developmental activities of the current government.  From the rice revolution via the anchor programme to its other derivative – the Abuja rice pyramids; right up to other sundry interventions in industry, health or Covid-19, the man has long assumed the status of being the brain box of a terrifically inert federal government. I do understand the rule that requires the apex bank to be independent more so in a relatively volatile monetary environment such as ours. Once upon a time, it was possible to conceive of the apex bank’s independence in terms of the deployment of monetary policy tools to control inflation and to manage money supply. Not any longer. The CBN under Emefiele has not only become a jack of all trades, it has in a twist of role reversal become a lender of first and the last resort! Thanks to the anaemic financial system since fostered under the current climate, Emefiele as the nation’s topmost banker has since become the new god under whom every knee must bow. So, what is new if an individual who apparently thinks he has seen it all decides to add the number one office in the land to a role he has so artfully acted albeit in an unofficial capacity? He should by all means run! One more thing though. Emefiele should grant Nigerians the courtesy of an early exit from his current job so he can concentrate on his critical next call. That done, he would have less of the rice fields and the harvests to worry about; or even still, the thankless loan recovery jobs as he would about the harvest of those crucial votes needed to propel him to the plum office. SPONSORED