A new foreign exchange (forex) bidding regime that will give priority to local manufacturers and stimulate job creation is underway, Central Bank Governor Godwin Emefiele, said yesterday. Emefiele, who spoke in Abuja yesterday at the launch of the 100-for-100 Policy for Production and Productivity (PPP), said: “The new FX bidding regime will be market-driven and intended to support companies that accord utmost priority for our local production and job creation drive.” He said the mission of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) through the 100-for-100 PPP initiative, “is to ensure that priority is accorded to companies that display verifiable progress in our imports substitution and job creation drive,” saying the bank “will continue to provide all the needed support, both in Naira and dollars specifically for the importation of plants and equipment to actualize these investments.” He pointed out that “the foreign exchange support will be solely for the importation of spares, plants and equipment needed to increase production capacities of these companies”. The 100-for-100 policy is one of the apex bank’s interventions designed to fast track productive activities in priority sectors. - Advertisement - Under the programme, eligible applicants will be required to submit their applications to their banks, after which, a notification is submitted on a dedicated portal – https://100for100ppp.ng, which has been created to ensure transparency and allow applicants the benefits of tracking the status of their applications. Also, eligible companies in priority sectors will be screened and 100 companies will be selected to receive funding from the CBN every 100 days, beginning from November 1, last year. The selection of subsequent beneficiaries will be rolled over every 100 days with new sets of 100 companies and details of these companies will be published in the major national dailies.   Sanwo-Olu hails youths in support of Tinubu’s presidential…     ‘Internal democracy remains APC’s biggest problem’     NHIS urges private healthcare providers not to shutdown   Based on the criteria, the CBN governor said for this first cycle, 243 applications, valued at N321.06 billion, spread over key sectors, such as agriculture, energy, healthcare, manufacturing and services sectors were submitted on the portal, adding, “after much engagement, 79 applications were received from banks, valued at N121.87 billion, for projects in six (6) sectors, namely agriculture, energy, healthcare, manufacturing, mining and services sectors.” After screening the requests against a set-out selection criteria categorised into: production efficiency and scalability; local content capacity; job creation and human capital development; operating sector relevance; and potential contribution to economic growth, 28 companies with projects that have been clearly articulated, were selected for funding. These projects, Emefiele said are, valued at N23.20 billion, comprising 14 in the manufacturing sector, 12 in the agricultural sector and two in the healthcare sector, saying “when fully operational, these projects are expected to create over 20,000 direct and indirect jobs across multiple sectors of the economy, as well as generate close to $125.80 million in foreign exchange earnings.” Five of the selected projects are greenfield projects that would exploit the huge opportunities in key sectors of the economy. Labour and Productivity Minister Dr. Chris Ngige said the 100-for-100 PPP initiative aligns with government’s desire to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty. “We have no choice but to embrace productivity stimulating measures,” the minister said. Ngige lamented that youth unemployment created the proliferation of ethnic militia like the Avengers (a militant group in the Southsouth), Independent Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) in the Southeast and Boko Haram insurgents in the Northeast and bandits in Northwest and Northcentral, among others. He said: “We have not adequately diversified, we have to change the narrative, while the fiscal and monetary authorities should harmonise their efforts,” the minister said. The Managing Director of Access Bank, Herbert Wigwe, pledged the readiness of commercial banks to support the initiative with all the resources at their disposal.