The stage is set for the  2022 Women Africa Cup of Nations final qualifiers  between Nigeria  and  Cote d’Ivoire beginning   with today’s  first leg tie at  the Moshood Abiola Stadium  in Abuja and Super Falcons coach Randy Waldrum  said his wards would attack , and attack the visitors ; even as  he gave glimpse  of his personae in a rare interview with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN.  Football seemed to be  the first love of Super Falcons’ coach  Randy Waldrum and age  has not tempered  his passion  so much so he has little or no interest  in other sports except  the beautiful game. The 65-year-old American said nothing  gives him so much happiness lately  except football  and the lovey-dovey sessions  with his grandchildren at any opportune time.  “I don’t really have a lot of hobbies that I’m able to participate in outside of football ; because I just really don’t have that much time with my schedule ,” Waldrum said in an exclusive interview with NationSport. “First and foremost,  I love football so much; it is my life; and everything that I have done  revolved around football. “But if I do have some free time and  at this stage of  my life, the most important thing is spending some time with my young  grandchildren; that’s probably the most exciting  thing I enjoy the most . - Advertisement - “ Outside of that , I love to play golf but I don’t get much of an opportunity . “So because of my schedule, I like to spend time with my family whenever   there’s some time at home I’m on the road so much always traveling but  I really enjoy my personal time ; just to sit home and relax and get into my swimming pool ; sit out with and drink a cup of tea and enjoy the scenery. “ I enjoy  the  very simple things in life and I’m not a very complicated person ; I don’t need to have a lot of flamboyance life style  rather  I just really appreciate the simple things in life. “  I know it sounds pretty boring but that’s really who  I . “Like  I said, football really run so much of what my life is all about both on the pitch and off the pitch, “ but every other things revolves my family and  we all enjoy  spending time together . This is really important to us and I will say  that is how I handle my busy schedule ,” explained Waldrum who doubles as  both the current head coach of University of Pittsburgh Panthers women’s soccer team and Super Falcons.  Since taken over the reins of the Super Falcons in October 2020, Waldrum claimed he has come to realise  the African mentality especially  working in a challenging terrain , adding he was grappling with the demands of working in  Nigeria . Apart from working  in Trinidad and Tobago between 2014 and 2016, the former America international  has virtually lived and worked  all these years  as a  college  soccer coach with vast  experience  with women’s  soccer  at some of renowned American Universities including ;   University of Tulsa ;Baylor University ;University of Notre Dame ;Houston Dash and lately  with University of Pittsburgh as well as Nigeria national women’s football team. “Thank you for welcoming me back to Nigeria and you know with your question regarding me leaving my comfort zone in the US to come back to the Super Falcons; and how has that  transition worked for me?” Waldrum who reportedly  started his coaching career  with the men’s team of Austin College in 1982, asked rhetorically. “You know this is  something I’ve done for years now, I coached  back in Trinidad Tobago and  so;  I’m used to leaving what I am comfortable  with in the US and going to  work in other countries and so it’s not really they big of  a  transition.” He continued: “ Obviously, the more I come back to Nigeria, the more comfortable I am with everything from travel to hotels; to the way we do things here in Nigeria and so forth ,so I’m feeling very comfortable and very excited . “ I’m always excited to leave the US to come back to work with the team ; so it’s a fantastic group of young women and excited about what the future holds for us and always looking forward to my return.” On his penultimate return for the Aisha Buhari Cup last year, Waldrum  had a rude awakening  about  how  competitive  women’s football in Africa can be when the Banyana Banyana beat the Super Falcons  4-2 to win the maiden edition of the invitational tournament in front of the home fans  at the Mobolaji Johnson Stadium (MJS) in Lagos. “I have always known how  competitive women’s football is in Africa and obviously in the tournament (Aisha Buhari Cup) we lost to South Africa,” admitted Waldrum.  “There were  lessons that we learnt  and we have to take that from every game;  whether we win or lose there are  always things that we can improve upon and certainly one of the things that we have to understand is in the big picture and a preparation for the World Cup . “All of these tournaments and all of these international matches that were playing , are all geared  towards  preparing us for the World Cup. “Of course,  so certainly couldn’t have all of the players  for that match against South Africa  since we were missing some key players but that doesn’t take anything away from South Africa and how well they played . “But  we learned  some things especially defensively ; we have to be a better equipped to handle  and offensively finding that our   players must  play well  together. “The  game of football is not always about just the best players, it’s about putting the best collection of players together and working together;  we learnt that certainly with   that result  (against South Africa) just as we learnt with t games in Turkey and our games in the US , when we played Portugal and Jamaica  in the US ;  all  these things are learning experiences,” Waldrum explained. Yet the biggest test  for  Waldrum’s Super Falcons is here today  at the Moshood Abiola  Stadium in Abuja  when  Nigeria host Cote d’Ivoire  in the first leg of the final round  qualifiers for the 2022 Africa  Women’s Cup of Nations to be hosted later this year by Morocco. Incidentally, qualification for the 12th  AWCON  would give the offers the Super Falcons the chance to bid for a place at next year’s  FIFA Women’s World Cup in Australia and New Zealand  since the four semi-finalists in Morocco automatically guaranteed the continental  tickets.   Djokovic gets warm welcome in Dubai     NSSF Trials: Teenage jumper Lekwot eyes Brume’s feat     Topfield retains Doregos basketball title    “We are preparing well for our next game against Cote d’Ivoire and  we understand they’re very good team ; we are very familiar with them and we respect the fact that on any given day if you’re not prepared to play, they are a team that can cause problems for us,” Waldrum admitted. He continued:  “But he big picture for us as a country is that  we feel like we have all the talent, we feel like we have a great team and a great support from a federation . “Always, our style  will be about attacking football and that’s the way we will approach the game (against  the lady Elephants)  whether it  is in Abuja or it’s in the Ivory Coast (Abidjan). “We  want to play an  attacking football ; we want to be on the front foot, we want to control the game and forced them to play out of their comfort zone. “Obviously, those things(attacking  football)  don’t always happen  and that’s what the training as well as the preparation is for  us to get a better understanding within the players of the game model and how we want to approach the game. “Certainly, we will approach it  that way  whether  we were playing the Ivory coast (Cote d’Ivoire)  or England. We will still  approach the game the  same way ,  we want to be an attacking football team , we want  to be exciting and creative but we also want to be defensively disciplined and  secured,”  the former New York Cosmos midfielder added.     WALDRUM:FACT FILE Full name         Randy Marlon Waldrum Date of birth    September 25, 1956 Place of birth   Irving, Texas, United States College career  Midwestern State University(1979–1981)                    Senior career:  Los Angeles Skyhawks; Indianapolis Daredevils;New York Cosmos               Teams managed 1978–1989      Pittsburg State University (women) 1989–1994      Tulsa (men) 1989–1994      University of Tulsa (women) 1996–1998      Baylor University (women) 1999–2013      University of Notre Dame (women) 2014–2016      Trinidad and Tobago (women) 2014–2017      Houston Dash 2018–              University of Pittsburgh (women) 2020–              Nigeria (women)   SPONSORED