It was a day of commendations for Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Senator Solomon Olamilekan Adeola, who represents Lagos West District at the National Assembly. This was on the occasion of the fifth edition of the town hall meeting and empowerment he organized by the lawmaker recently. Speaking at the event, the Senate President, Senator Ahmed Lawan commended Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for his tremendous achievements in different sectors of the economy in the two and half years. He said the governor deserves a second term. The Senate president said Lagos State is blazing the trail of development in the country and that the state epitomizes the best the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) can give to Nigerians. He said: “We have so many APC states that are working hard, but Lagos State remains the best.” In Adeola, Lawan said, “Lagos State has given Nigerians a very solid, a very stable and a very reliable person to serve as your senator”. He said the people of Lagos West have voted for a senator that is representing them well and that “he has done so much for the Senate in terms of his productivity”. Lawan described Adeola, popularly known as ‘Yayi’ as a very prolific and productive senator that works round the clock. Sanwo-Olu also poured encomiums on Senator Adeola for his good works, saying he first represented Alimosho State Constituency II at the Lagos State House of Assembly between 2003 and 2011 before moving first to the House of Representatives in 2011 and the Senate in 2015 because of his good representation. He said: “Indeed, you’ve been a worthy son, a true representative of the people and a democrat and we are happy with what you are doing.” - Advertisement - Lawan commended Adeola for bringing dividends of democracy closer to the people through the empowerment items. The number three citizen the gesture was also in line with President Muhammadu Buhari agenda of taking 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in 10 years. The Senate president appealed to the beneficiaries of the items not to sell them for immediate financial gain. As part of the empowerment programme, Adeola gave out eight patrol vehicles to the police and distributed 10 ambulances to general hospitals in the senatorial district, which make up 10 out of the 20 local governments in Lagos State. He also donated 10 incubating machines to the general hospitals.   Ekiti APC and challenge of reconciliation     Ex-APC Reps hail CECPC for confirming lawmakers as…     My plan for Ekiti, by Kolawole   In the health sector, Adeola said he has facilitated the renovation of more than 20 health centres across the 28 local council development areas (LCDAs). Aside from the renovation, he said 89 different medical equipment will also be given to each of these health centres and that 150 beds will also be distributed among all the health centres. Other items distributed at the event to beneficiaries from the district are 100 grinding machines, 100 inverter welding machines, 50 vulcaniser machines, 50 tricycles (Keke Marwa), 50 minibus (korope) and 100 generators. Also included are 100 hairdressing machines and hand dryers. Adeola said he has also facilitated the reconstruction of 15 different roads within the district. He added: “I have not restricted my intervention to the health and transport sector. In the educational sector, we will be distributing 30,000 textbooks here today in Mathematics and English to all our primary and secondary schools in Lagos West District. There is also an ongoing construction in nine schools in the district.” The lawmaker, who represents Lagos West added that 500 tailors will be empowered with sewing machines, while 125 party women leaders will go home with deep freezers to start up their own business. He added: “Thirty thousand Mathematics and English textbooks would also be distributed to all the primary and secondary schools in the district. “Also, there is an ongoing construction of nine schools within the senatorial district with each school made up of six classrooms, six toilets, a staff-room and a borehole in the 10 local governments within this district.” The occasion was also graced by other dignitaries, such as lawmakers at the federal level, including Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, Senator Mohammed Sanni Musa and Senator Yisa Jubril; Senator Yakubu Oseni; Lagos Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) member, Rabiu Oluwa, the Lagos APC chairman, Cornelius Ojelabi, Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, former Lagos State Deputy Governor Oluranti Adebule, a member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Jude Idimogu and traditional rulers.   SPONSORED