A Federal High Court in Abuja has granted the request by a former Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Mohammed Adoke for permission to travel to the United States of America (USA) to attend to his health. Justice Inyang Ekwo, who granted the relief on a motion ex-parte by Adoke, ordered the release of his international passport to enable him process his visa. Justice Ekwo ordered Adoke to return the passport within three days of his return to the country. Adoke is being tried before the court on money laundering related charge. He is standing trial with a businessman, Aliyu Abubakar. His international passport was deposited in the court in partial fulfilment of the conditions attached to the bail earlier granted him. Adoke, in his application, dated February 24, 2022 said he needed the passport to process his “medical visa for entry into the USA to honour a scheduled medical appointment for lumbar spondylosis at the Spine Institute, Euclid Avenue, Cleveland Hospital, Ohio, USA.”   UPDATED: Appeal Court voids sack of Justice Gladys Olotu of…     UPDATED: Kidnap kingpin Evans, two others get life sentence     BREAKING: Osogbo agog as Tinubu visits Ataoja   It was stated, in the supporting affidavit, that “in particular, the 1st defendant/applicant (Adoke) is scheduled to undergo treatment for Lumbar Spondylosis. “He has secured an appointment with his physician at Cleveland Hospital, Ohio, USA but does not have an active visa at the moment. “The management of Cleveland Hospital, Ohio, USA has written to the American Embassy in Abuja to issue the 1% Defendant/Applicant with a medical Visa in furtherance of this purpose. “To enable the American Embassy in Abuja to conclude the visa processing, the 1st defendant/applicant needs his international passport to be stamped.” His lawyer, Kanu Agabi (SAN) moved the motion, which was not opposed by Ofem Uket (lawyer to the prosecuting agency, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission) and Emmanuel Olafusi (lawyer to Abubakar). The trial is scheduled to resume on March 7.