The report of the National Assembly Joint Committee on Review of the 1999 Constitution is expected to be presented to both chambers for consideration by the end of this month, co-chairman of the panel, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege said yesterday. Omo-Agege, who is also Deputy President of the Senate, said during a joint retreat of the Senate and House of Representatives Committees on Constitution review that the report would contain recommendations for 55 amendments. The proposed amendments stemmed from hearings and memos submitted by the public. He said the COVID-19 pandemic hampered the work of the panel to deliver on its timeline and commended his colleagues for their commitment, sacrifice and dogged determination in ensuring that the committee delivered on its mandate. - Advertisement - “I am aware that we have independently reviewed the consultants’ reports and recommendations by way of re-couching, making additional provisions, rejecting and even introducing entirely new bills on account of various advocacies and agitations on some issues of overriding national concern,” he said.   Winter Olympics gets underway in Beijing     CITN, ICSAN, others kick against ICAN Amendment Bill     BOS: A needless distraction   He added: “I believe that some of us will be seeing some of the Bills the first time. As such, it is incumbent on us to painstakingly consider them clause by clause. Let me reiterate, it will not be an easy task. “We have two working days in this retreat and I wish to encourage each and every one of us to give the work all the attention it deserves, especially as we have limited time to present the report and transmit to the State Houses of Assembly in line with our revised timeline and programme of activities of the National Assembly this year. “I am sure we are committed to concluding this phase of the work within the timeline.” Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives and Chairman of the House ad hoc committee, Rep. Ahmed Idris Wase, appealed to members to cooperate to ensure that the bill is transmitted to state Houses of Assembly for concurrence by the end of February. Executive Director of the Policy Legislative Advocacy Centre (PLAC), Clement Nwankwo, said areas of amendment recommended for consideration include local government reforms, judicial reforms and special seat for women in both the national and state houses of assembly, among others. Recommendations from the joint ad hoc committees will be presented to the Senate and House of Representatives plenary for adoption before they are transmitted to the state Houses of Assembly for concurrence in accordance with the provisions of the 1999 Constitution as amended. The 9th Assembly has decided to separate all the bills on constitution review to avoid a situation where the entire document is thrown away in the event the President withholds assent to any of the bills.