Elated and excited to have my holiday in the land of the Kiwis– New Zealand – in the year 2015, uppermost in my mind was to hold in my arms my first grandson, Oluwasemilore AdejolaJesu Ekundayo. In the course of my traversing Auckland (similar to Lagos, the former capital city of Nigeria), and environs, I came to discover farmlands with many sheep laced with houses. I pointed the attention of my son, Dr. Samuel Ekundayo, to these litanies of farmlands. He retorted by saying: “Dad, one day possibly all of us will become farmers as these are the wealthiest set of people in the land.” I was not only surprised but shocked by his statement. He told me that these farmers also own estates. My mind raced back to Malaysia where I resided and did my PhD research for three years, from 2009 to 2012. The oil palm plantation owners trading in oil palm derivatives for years suddenly became wealthy as their farmlands were becoming nearer to towns and cities. The value of the land spiraled resulting in a boom for these farmers. The farmers expanded to new frontiers in rural communities. Developers swoop on the plantations near the towns and cities and in a jiffy, they became super rich through investment in real estate development; some from their own toils, and others through labour of their progenitors or forefathers. Cheering news from Julius Berger’s Agrobusiness venture targeting cashew processing It is cheering and gladdening reading of the engineering construction giant, Julius Berger Nigeria PLC, taking a trip, though viewed by many as risky, into the unpopular foray of agribusiness. Why agribusiness? This columnist will want to respond with a clever quip: why not agrobusiness especially in this day and age when the supposed boom in crude oil prospecting, production and processing is gradually turning to doom? The big picture Julius Berger is seeing is to have zero-waste processing of the cashew – exhausting the entire value chain – and so cash on the opportunity of sharing from the humongous 6 billion dollars ($6b) global market provided through the production, processing, packaging and marketing of cashew. Julius Berger (JB) in putting action to their words have already commenced, before alerting the press, on the construction of an ultra – modern plant in Epe, Lagos State. This is expected to be commissioned in earnest. This is very strategic for JB. This columnist while at Harvard Business School (HBS) studying strategy execution learned that one way for firms to only survive but thrive in any business environment is not by management harping on command- and – control techniques. Professor Robert Simons encapsulated it thus: “But command – and – control techniques no longer suffice in competitive environments where creativity and employee initiative are critical to success.” It is remarkable that JB is diversifying, applying innovative control systems, from engineering construction, the company’s main turf, into agrobusiness. It is also gratifying and gladdening that the firm, JB, has done a lot of homework in not just getting any plant into the country but one that will ensure zero – waste operational practice thus enunciating and enhancing sustainable business practice. One point worth pinpointing here is that JB is not just involved in production of cashew nuts for export. Nigeria has taken part in this atavistic way of doing business in the agricultural sector way back to the days of our political progenitors – Azikiwe, Ahmadu Bello and Awolowo – associated with raw palm oil, groundnut and cocoa export. Never again, should Nigeria tow that inglorious trajectory! It is upsetting and worrisome that two African countries mainly grow the plant used as the main raw material in producing the popular Lipton Tea. Up till now, these countries naively export this dried raw tea to the United Kingdom for processing; thereafter resulting in global distribution, marketing and sales fetching that country humongous profit annually while Africa bleeds in poverty and underdevelopment. Whose fault? One cannot but corroborate Cassius in Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar who pontificated: “the fault lies not in our stars, but in ourselves.” Simply and squarely stated, we, Africans, have refused to put our brains to work. The fault lies at our doorstep! I will chip in this timely advice to JB management: the finished products should target African markets starting with certain West Africa countries. It is high time Africans arose for Africa’s development; no super power would come to do this for us. - Advertisement - Governments in Nigeria: When are they going to stop paying lip service to Agribusiness?   NDDC and Akpabio’s big gamble     A’Ibom bandwagon of endorsements     The Senate and the Witness Protection Programme Bill   This columnist is mostly at a loss as to why, in most cases, both the federal and state governments in Nigeria are seemingly paying lip service to agribusiness and agro – allied industrialization. It is puzzling and pitiful! The discovery and exploration of oil blinded and blunt our reasoning and rationality even as climate change and gradual jettisoning of fossil fuels globally is staring all oil producing countries in the face. In the next 10 years, the world’s demand for oil would greatly reduce whether Nigeria likes it or not. What will Nigeria do? Diversify or die! This has been my blunt and scary advice!! One way out is proactive agribusiness and/or agro – allied industrial development. The governments at all levels should show more proactiveness and offer mouthwatering incentives. This can be in the form of public private partnership (PPP) arrangement that could involve offering and clearing expanse of land, granting of tax holiday for up to 5 years, government holding equity of not more than 40% in some investment to ensure investors wields more power, etc. It is noteworthy to commend certain effort by some states’ helmsmen such as Dr. John Kayode Fayemi, incumbent Ekiti State Governor, in establishing the Ikun Ekiti Diary Farm and Professor Ben Ayade, the Cross River State Governor, in founding the Cross River Seeds and Seedlings Factory. More of these initiatives and innovation are needed to boost food security, employment generation, internally generated revenue (IGR), foreign direct investment (FDI), earning foreign exchange, gross domestic product (GDP), poverty alleviation, etc. Replicating New Zealand’s and Malaysia’s Models In the introduction to this article, this columnist made mention of his holidaying in New Zealand in 2015. It is noteworthy to succinctly state that one of the starting points for New Zealand’s economy to gain traction was the early days investment in special sheep breeding. This type of sheep boosts wool production. Sheep produced was locally processed but subsequently exported as the market grew. Presently, New Zealand, is less than 5 million in population but boasts of up to 25 million special sheep species! Nigeria can take cue from this especially the state governments. Each state could focus on one to three items as raw materials for agro – allied industries to be sited within the state. Secondly, Malaysia is a shining example from the time of the historical visit to Nigeria. It was at the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), Ibadan, the eyes of Malaysians were open to the good in the oil palm seed. Presently, through innovation and research studies, Malaysia has unique species of oil palm seeds that could yield fruits in 24 months! Surprisingly, Malaysia, apart from producing bleached oil (referred to as vegetable oil in our market, the King’s brand), the country is also producing diesel from oil palm processing! One point to highlight here in emphasizing the political gain of the government quest into agro – industrialization in that country, Malaysia, is that the rural dwellers have been made rich and consequently keep voting massively for the central government in any election year. They loathe migrating to Kuala Lumpur or any of the cities but rather flock to these cities to enjoy during holidays or special festivals. The opposite is the case in Nigeria. Thus, in Malaysia, it was a strategic and sagacious political master stroke investing in agribusiness, and later agro – industrialization, though its occurrence was overtime. Conclusion In concluding this piece this week, this is a clarion call to other business entities to diversify into agribusiness and agro – industrialization like Julius Berger. In addition, the states, and even local governments, could initiate aggressive and proactive inculcation of agribusiness as a means of diversification from depending on oil revenue which is nothing but a mirage. This columnist is not stating that agribusiness or agro – industrialization is the only way out of the socio – economic quagmire the country has found herself. Firms and governments could explore investment opportunities that equally abound in information communication technology (ICT), tourism and health care delivery. In health care delivery, kudos should be given to Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti, for foraying into cerebral medical research, building capacity of personnel, procuring and installing infrastructure to ensure sustainable medical practice, possibly adjudged the best in Nigeria presently. In capping this piece, our country’s leaders should divert the ship of state off the cliff through innovative and creative maneuvering. Kudos to Julius Berger! Notable businesses in this clime should follow suit!! The time is now!!! SPONSORED