The Army yesterday said that its troops have discovered many bodies in camps belonging to the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and its armed wing, Eastern Security Network (ESN). The decomposing bodies were found at Azia, Mbosi and Uli in Ihiala council of Anambra State, and Orsumoghu and Lilu Forest in Orsu council of Imo State, Army spokesman Brig. Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu claimed in a statement. Nwachukwu said the troops of 82 Division made the discovery on Wednesday when they conducted operations to clear criminals’ havens. “During the clearance operations, troops overpowered and routed the dissidents, who staged an ambush against the gallant troops. The troops then proceeded to clear Lilu Forest, where they were met with resistance from the outlawed group. The criminals were again overrun by the troops who effectively cleared Lilu Forest and the adjoining areas earlier occupied by the dissidents.   Lawmakers seek power to invite President, governors     EFCC urges Nigerians to collaborate with anti-corruption…     Robbers kill two policemen, five others at four Edo banks   “During the clearance operations, the troops uncovered decomposing remains of kidnapped and murdered victims dumped in a deep well by members of the irredentist groups. While conducting the operations, the unrelenting troops encountered and cleared four ambush sites along Orsumoghu-Mbosi-Ihiala-Uli roads, dislodging the irredentists from their criminal havens.” He said the troops neutralised one of the criminals, arrested three suspects and recovered one Pump Action gun, two live cartridges, two mobile phones, a black coloured Toyota Hilux vehicle, a polythene bag containing substances suspected to be hemp and N1,920 cash. In another operation conducted yesterday, according to him, the troops, in collaboration with the police, busted an IPOB/ESN syndicate that disrupted the just-concluded council elections at some polling stations in Nkanu West of Enugu State. “During the intelligence-driven operation carried out around Centenary Estate Obeagu Uno, troops uncovered 7 AK47 rifles, two Pump Action rifles, 10 rifle magazines, eight live cartridges, 74 live rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition, one hand grenade, a tipper truck containing three bodies, among other items,” Nwachukwu said.