Other than professional entertainers, Nigerian journalists constitute in my estimation perhaps the most self-absorbed occupational group in the world.  And I am not talking only about the tabloid press, or the misnamed social media.  They write so much about themselves and their work that it is a wonder they get to report the news at all when they aren’t for all practical purposes the news. If you stripped the day’s intelligence of their pet concerns and the predilections, it will hardly qualify as an account that defines the day and gives it meaning. I exaggerate of course, but never trust me again if you don’t find in any day’s paper several headlines similar in substance or tenor to the following, which are not entirely my fabrication: “Editor for Afro-Caribbean Summit.” “Editor’s car snatched at gun-point” - Advertisement - “Reporter’s memoir for launch.” “Top newsman’s home burglarized.” “Editor-in-chief loses mum, a community leader.” “Editor’s wedding brings city to standstill.” “News anchor’s family welcomes twins.” “Buhari honors editor’s aunt.” “Editor’s brother graduates at Oxford.” “Top TV presenter loses dad.” “Pope blesses editor’s mother-in-law at The Vatican.” In and of itself the event may be newsworthy, but it is almost as if what best defines it is its association however vicarious, with a media person or institution. I was myself caught up in this manner of seeing and reporting the world when Wole Soyinka was named recipient of the 1987 Nobel Prize in Literature, the first African and the first Black.  Back then, he was writing a fortnightly column for the struggling newsweekly, The African Guardian, courtesy of Dr Yemi Ogunbiyi, a senior executive of the parent organization. This was a world historic event, to be sure.  But it was also in a real sense The African Guardian’s story.  It is not every day that a person associated with a newsmagazine is awarded a Nobel.  So, how do we frame the story, our story? Various formulations were canvassed at the meeting of the board of editors.  The one that resonated the most was “African Guardian columnist wins Nobel Prize in Literature.” Seriously. Soyinka was a columnist for the magazine all right, and had just been awarded the Nobel in Literature.  However, to reduce Soyinka to an African Guardian columnist would be to indulge in an absurdity without parallel.  Cooler heads prevailed, and we settled for reporting the news in the proper context. Something tells me that this kind of debate takes place in newsrooms across Nigeria not infrequently. I was brought to these ruminations last January, following the retirement from Punch Newspapers of the chairman of its Editorial Board, (Olu)Segun Adediran, after 11 years in the post.   A voyage around rice     The Bashir Tofa we never knew     Shonekan: The collapse of a tragic delusion (2)   In the valedictory, he recalled how he had arrived at the Punch some 22 years earlier via two Lagos-based magazines, The Nigerian Economist, and Policy Magazine, both now distant memories, intending that his sojourn in journalism would be “short and snappy.” But it went on for 22 delightful and fulfilling years, throughout which the paper offered him a “most “auspicious platform” to commit to serving God and humanity through advocacy and with an “uncommon passion for truth and a better Nigeria.’ “There is no limit to what a man can do or where he can go if he doesn’t mind who gets the credit,” he once espied on a plaque on former U.S. President Ronald Reagan’s desk in the Oval Office. He parlayed the inscription into his guiding principle and inspiration in journalism. It served him well.  For he rose from member of the Editorial Board in 1999 through the ranks as it were to senior member, deputy chair and finally chair, the post from which he retired last January.  It was there he wrote, that he found personal and professional fulfillment.  He flourished. He led its Editorial Board of “passionate, bold, courageous professionals to win awards in editorial writing year after year. “We studied very hard and researched harder. We engaged, dared, and challenged the powers-that-be, but never compromised on integrity. We were never given to the syrupy sentimentality of ‘Big Men’ and untouchables,” he wrote of his team. They defended human rights unequivocally in Nigeria and everywhere, championed good governance,” true federalism,” and sought to advance the cause of democracy. Tellingly, he wrote: “Most importantly, we never used the platform for the furtherance of any pecuniary interest or hidden agenda. We never pandered to any sectional political interests or whims of any Nigerian Big Men. We believed that as ‘societal judges,’ journalists should not have a cosy relationship with power holders. We took heed of the saying: “Conscience is the inner voice that warns us somebody may be looking.” Surely, it cannot be that he never wrote anything memorable nor launched any crusades in all that time, for as he stated in his valedictory, one of the reasons he entered journalism was to help make Nigeria better.  And he had every opportunity to pursue that goal at PUNCH.   Nor can it be that I missed virtually everything that he wrote. Yet, apart from the January 13 article announcing his resignation, I do not recall reading any of his articles, meeting him, or hearing his name or authority invoke in a discussion of public affairs. I had resigned my position as chair of the Editorial Board of The Guardian some three years before Adediran arrived at the Punch, and had relocated to the United States to take up a journalism faculty appointment.  And I lived there for practically all of Adediran’s time at PUNCH time.  While that may account for my not having met him, it does not account for nor excuse my not being familiar with his work.  Yet I have always prided myself on being very attentive to editorial content in the Nigerian news media! Was he too invested with the collective editorial product and consequently so burned out that that he had no time for signed articles, or cared not in the least for the vainglory of writing a column? Throughout his PUNCH sojourn, Adeniran seems to have bee impelled by a clear-eyed view of editorial writing and the imperatives that should guide it. Here and there, his valedictory may smack of grandstanding.  It is almost as if the Editorial Board over which he presided was composed entirely of perfect men and women actuated by the purest of motives.  He displays no battle scars; it is almost as it there were no costs to the paper’s many battles. He is too well-tempered to settle scores here; he is generous to PUNCH Newspapers and his colleagues. Some aspiring editorial writer reading his valedictory might well conclude that that is the place to work. Editorial writing is one of the most coveted positions in Nigerian journalism today.  It was not always like that. It used to be an adjunct of the of the production until the unforgettable Stanley Macebuh institutionalized an editorial board and recruited some of the brightest persons he could find to run it,  first at the Daily Times, and later at The Guardian. It is exciting and fulfilling work. You get to write a column in which you can sound off to your heart’s content on any issue.  You get to be known to large sections of the public. You get to be courted by policy-makers, especially if you are the board chair.  You get to rate a place in the social register and to meet persons of consequence.  You get to be talked about. The attention is flattering; seductive, even.  It takes a firmly grounded person, a person of character, not to let it get into his or her head. From his valedictory, I would say that Olusegun Adeniran fits that bill. Here’s wishing him a happy and contented retirement.  Having cultivated a life away from the limelight, he should suffer no withdrawal symptoms.   A Note to Readers This column it taking a medical timeout. Our regular Tuesday Communion will resume as soon as circumstances permit; My grateful thanks to you all for your attention over years. Best. SPONSORED