MEMBERS of the Journalists Estate Residents Development Association (JERDA), Phase 1, Arepo, Ogun State have condemned the attacks on the arc they built on the entrance to the estate by some people in the area. In a letter signed by Chairman JERDA Phase 1, Deaconess Olufunke Fadugba and General Secretary, Toye Olori entitled: “Unlawful invasion, criminal destruction to property and persistent threat to lives and property”, they alleged the threat to their lives, invasion and harassment by some residents of  Beachland Estate Residents’ Association (BERA). The group alleged that BERA members and some leaders in the community not only pulled down the arc they built on the road, but also dealt with some of their members who challenged them. In the letter to the state Governor, Dapo Abiodun and the police, the journalists stated: “They first set about the arc with axes and diggers to weaken the foundation and seeing that it was not bulging, they then drove an Ayab Truck over it to bring it down violently. The steel arc is new. It replaced the initial one that gave way for the road construction. “The replacement of the arc was after due approval from the state Ministry of Works and under its thorough engineering supervision. - Advertisement - “It took strong restraint of JERDA members and some elders in the estate, for the invasion not to degenerate into full blown skirmish.”   Landwey unveils homes’ model, centre     Awoyinka: LASRERA Law will protect real estate transactions     Intercontinental Park: A city within a city   The group added that the arc was installed on February 7, 2022, after due notice to the  Warewa Police Station and the Ogun State Ministry of Works as well as Ministry of Physical Planning, which the Works engineer inspected its installation. However, the journalists said some community leaders, who accompanied thugs, claimed that they were acting on instruction. They recalled that the arc was inaugurated in 2003 after an approval by the state government and that it was billed to serve as security outpost for the estate. They urged the government and the Police to wade into the matter. “We have made several overtures to address their perceived grievances over the years, but they have become more violent in their bid to frustrate our effort to secure lives of our members, our families and the estate. “We will like to put the government on notice of those who have aversion to peace in this community and may be working against efforts of government to protect lives and property of citizens.  Beyond our control, the population growth in Arepo, buoyed by constant influx of young people from all parts of the country, is becoming a resting reservoir to communal violence and destruction that may thwart the efforts of the state government,” the group added.