The move by the National Assembly to abridge the right of Nigerian citizens to express themselves fully in the democratic process is simply unacceptable. What distinguishes citizens from foreigners and other residents of the country is the right to full participation in the electoral process. They, by law, have the right to present themselves for any office of the land for which they are legally qualified; they have the duty to decide those to run the country or any unit thereof and have a responsibility to keenly follow the process with a view to ensuring that only the best emerge as leaders. It is in this context that we consider the provision in the electoral bill just transmitted to the president for his assent as defective and unconstitutional. The Nigerian constitution establishes, in principle, the office of the citizen, who has the sole right to determine those qualified to run state machinery. Since independence in 1960, Nigerians have taken delight in the fact that they could freely approach the courts to set right whatever they consider wrong in the administration of the state. The courts are there as the final arbiters. It is therefore wrong to have a move by some people enjoying their office at the pleasure of the people to seek to take away this fundamental right.   Sooting death     Rejecting NHIS patients     Soludo’s promises   Section 31 of the extant Electoral Act allows a citizen to challenge and interdict the credentials submitted by any candidate for offices spelt out in the constitution. This could be done by sending petitions to the electoral commission or filing a case in the law courts. The provision is to ensure that the wrong candidates do not get elected. Besides, it is in recognition that the commission on its own could not know these candidates and thus requires the assistance of the public to check infiltration of impostors into the process. The documents required of candidates include educational certificates, birth certificate, and those other issues that would have been filled into relevant forms and sworn affidavits before judicial officers. When a candidate claims to have worked in an organisation creditably for specified years, whereas he was dismissed, he perjures and this could be pointed out by a citizen. When a man doctors his age to meet up with requirements under the law, it is a defect of character that should not go unpunished. And, when a candidate presents a forged certificate for election, those who know should play their needful role of getting him removed from the process. The Supreme Court had ruled in the case filed by former Vice President Atiku Abubakar that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) does not, on its own, have the right to disqualify a candidate under the law. This power is reserved for the courts. As such, the responsibility is left to the general public. When the electoral commission publishes credentials of candidates in an election, it is thus left for concerned citizens to challenge false depositions and presentations. To reserve this right to those who might have contested against the said candidate is to rob the society of decency. It is known that politicians sometimes treat malfeasance with kid gloves. In some cases where godfathers have interest in a particular candidate and are determined to force him through the process, aspirants may lack the courage to challenge whatever is presented as it could be interpreted as challenging the authority of the godfather. The society would thus suffer the consequences. - Advertisement - In the new Nigeria that we are all desirous to have, there should be no room for “lepers” in the public place. The only way to ensure that only those known to be fit are elected is to ensure that all citizens keenly watch the process and have the right to approach courts to weed out candidates who perjured in filing their papers.