The prestigious GTCO Lagos International Polo Tournament makes a return after 24 months with 30 teams vying for honours in four major cup titles. The ambitious teams which are fully armed with foreign professionals and fortified with thoroughbred Argentine horses are competing for honours in the four major cups categories – Silver Cup, Lagos Low Cup, Open Cup, and the event’s biggest prize, the Majekodunmi Cup respectively. For the first time in the rich history of the international polo festival, the glamorous event would be decided over three weeks of bumper-to-bumper polo actions from February 8 to 27, with eight equally matched teams jostling for the Open Cup from February 8 to 13. The highly revered Majekodunmi Cup will take the center stage from February 14-20, 2022 with five from Abuja, Kano, Jos and host Lagos battling for the top prize., while The last week of February 22-27, 2022 would feature 17 teams drawn from major polo centres across the country locked in a battle royale for the Low Cup and the Silver Cup respectively. Six glittering subsidiary prizes, the Oba of Lagos, Adedapo Ojora Memorial Cup, the Italian Ambassador’s Cup, and the Independence Cup, Lagos Heritage Cup, and Chief of Naval Cup are also on offer during the fiesta reputed as the oldest polo tournament in the country, dating back to the early 1900s.   Bundesliga play-off race: Aruna ‘s TTC suffers setback     Action resumes at refurbished TBS Cricket Oval     Teranga Lions: Amokachi, Ekoku hail Mane on AFCON glory   - Advertisement -  “It’s going to be three weeks of thrilling polo experience for our esteemed sponsors, partners, and lovers of the noble game,” Tournament Manager, Seyi Oyinlola said at a world press conference heralding the 2022 edition. Oyinlola who commended GTBank, which is the main sponsor, stated that having gained the reputation as the biggest polo tournament in West Africa, the Lagos Polo Club looks forward to delivering great values for the sponsors and participants during the epoch fiesta. Polo Captain, Rotimi Makanjuola, who gave a breakdown of the teams vying for top honours also said that professional players from Argentina, the United Kingdom, South Africa, and professional umpires will also feature in the tournament. Polo Club president, Ayo Olashoju stated that the club is rejuvenated with the continuous infrastructural upgrade stressing that the entire club has been primed for the safety of players and horses to go with international standards. Representative of the Main Sponsor, GTCO, said the sponsorship of the 2022 NPA Lagos International Polo Tournament, which has grown over the years to become one of the most anticipated social and sporting events, is a demonstration of the bank’s strong belief in the role of sports in developing and uniting the society.