Crisis is rocking the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) Owo in Owo local government of Ondo State as the hospital’s Medical and Dental Consultants’ Association of Nigeria ( MDCAN) has threatened a showdown over the extended tenure of Dr Liasu Adeagbo, as Chief Medical Director ( CMD). The medical consultants said Dr. Adeagbo was due for retirement in July and should have proceed on terminal leave. Chairman of MDCAN in Owo FMC, Dr. Samuel Faturoti, described the reappointment of Dr. Adeagbo for another four years as prodecural flaws. Dr. Faturoti stated that the board of management of the hospital was not carried along in the entire re-appointment episode. Faturoti accused the CMD of not providing basic, vital consumables and drugs for the hospital, adding that there was no empathy from CMD to health workers at the COVID-19 Isolation Ward who were recently attacked. - Advertisement - He said there were over 20 consultants in the hospital eligible to occupy the position of a Medical Director and wondered why an individual would be scheming to spend over a decade as CMD. He called the Federal Ministry of Health to reconsider its position on the matter for the growth and development of the centre and to avoid bad antecedents in the medical profession. ” The medical director has continually boasted that the new term renewal was secondary to a performance evaluation carried out by the Federal Ministry of Health sometimes last year.   UPDATED: Why we released Odili’s seized passport, by…     Court to hear Nnamdi Kanu’s fundamental rights suit Feb. 28     FPSO fire: Two more corpses recovered on deck Trinity Spirit   ” However, it is pertinent to know that none of the stakeholders in the hospital ( Heads of Departments, union leaders, various hospital committees chairperson etc ) was aware of this visit for such an important function and indeed no circular was issued to that effect. ” In other words, the visit was deliberately shrouded in secrecy and manipulated to suit the whims and caprices of the outgoing Medical Director.” But Adeagbo argued that his reappointment was a prerogative of President Muhammadu Buhari. He said necessary procedures were duly followed in his re-appointment, adding that a 6-man panel came to the hospital, met all head of departments and accessed his performance in the hospital which recommended his re-appointment. ” It is a political appointment and that is why the salary I have been collecting for the past four years is on Consolidated Salary Scale. ” We will continue to appeal to them, though I know they have ambition. “The peace we have been enjoying is paramount and that has brought a lot of developments that have taken place here. “Majority of workers are happy about it except the very few people that are saying they are medical director in waiting “There is no problem. We will continue to discuss with them and ensure that we do not lose our peace,” he stated.