Ezra Dakup has emerged winner of the All Progressives Congress (APC) primary for Pankshin South constituency bye-election into Plateau Assembly. The election was held at the Pankshin South Constituency zonal office Longkat in a peaceful atmosphere. The Chairman of the electoral committee and former Borno Speaker Bulama Ibrahim declared that Dakup polled 138 votes to defeat former Provost of the Plateau College of Health Technology, Pankshin, Siyona Dasihit who scored 26 votes while Sylvanus Koppe got zero votes. Bulama said as a family, more work needs to be done to ensure victory during the bye-election while thanking the aspirants and delegates for conducting themselves peacefully during the elections. - Advertisement - Bulus Danladi of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) described the election as peaceful and in accordance with the laid down rules and commended the party for a good job.   Anambra: Appeal Court reserves judgment in appeals by Andy…     I am frantically praying for a daughter-in-law, says…     BREAKING: Court denies jurisdiction on suit by…   Plateau Commissioner of Finance, Regina Soemlat urged the aspirants to continue to imbibe the spirit of sportsmanship. The Commissioner also called on people of Pankshin South to come out on February 26 to support the candidate of the party to emerge victoriously. Chairman of Pankshin Local Government Council, Audu Kak’mena described the exercise as peaceful and called on people of the area to continue to support the administration of Governor Simon Lalong to enable him to succeed. Dakup thanked the delegates, the party and supporters for the privilege adding that their dreams will only come true when they turn out on the election day to actualise their dream. APC Chairman Pankshin Local Government Area, Tanimu Shikmut commended the maturity exhibited by the delegates and the party faithful expressing optimism that the party will emerge victorious during the secondary elections. The Nation reports that the seat became vacant following the death of Hon. Henry Longs in November 2021.