En route to the 2023 polls, political discourse has become glyptic; it unfurls with an incised edge. Conversation flounders on the whetstone of courtiers and contours of media narratives. The incised edge delineates political nature and culture. It is the steely autograph of the Nigerian core. Intellectuals, artists, revolutionaries, pacifists, economists, activists, sprout and flower astride the incised edge, like the mystical roses of the mire. By their devices, our chaste, walled garden is made unchaste for brutes wielding unmerited power, like the plundered bower of the country brothel. The truth unfurls in common and uncommon hours; it establishes why eggheads rarely become potentates. Perhaps the fault is in their stars. Most intellectuals parade flawed presence because they nurse dubious persona and amoral substance. Yet they’d rather be seen as idealists. Radiant idealism without grit eventually dims to smut; flaming and curling, it sears with promise until it scalds the tongue of the idealist, leaving him with a charred heart. The best idealism is mined inside out, deep down in the trenches. It surpasses the splendour of pontification or a snobbish purge of the mind. Thus to attain true relevance in the scheme of things, the Nigerian intellectual must descend his arrogant perch and hop in primeval mud. It is the surest path to felling the castle brace of bondage erected by predatory oligarchs. Criminals win elections. The Nigerian public office is not for the faint-hearted; treasury looters, paedophiles, rapists, advance-fee fraudsters, ex-convicts, terrorists, and thugs vie for public office. Oftentimes they win. In pursuit of power, politicians kill, steal, sponsor carnage, and hate-speech. At their victory, they recruit intellectuals to justify their acquisition of power, including the deviltry and bloodlust deployed in quest of it. To validate power in such unworthy hands, eggheads create a pseudo-reality, plausible enough to distort facts and redefine truth. Plotting pseudo-events, they pretend to speak for the people and work for the country’s good but they are performers whose chief intent is to make money. Conflict is their treasure trove. Call them political profiteers or misery merchants if you like. They are in the media, civil societies, and extractive industries. They are part of the presidential cabinet, state cabinets and local government. They prowl the social media, parroting propaganda and outright lies, polluting public discourse with sycophancy, hate-speech, and other behavioural toxins. Government and corporations allow courtiers into their inner circles, imbuing them with instant celebrity but as Saul points out, no class of courtiers, from the eunuchs behind Manchus in the 19th century to the Baghdad caliphs of the Abbasid caliphate, has ever transformed into a responsible and socially productive class. Courtiers, argues Hedges, are hedonists of power. When exposed as complicit in the misinformation and misrule of the nation, they swiftly claim innocence, stressing that they were simply working with the information made available to them, and justifying their pay cheques. In truth, they are intellectual hooligans committing the violence of pretense against Nigeria and her people. There is little difference between them and the proverbial fawning page. They play smooth flatterer and thug to both the government and citizenry-herd, twisting and turning with changing circumstances. They are deucedly reactive. Their words and deeds boom as cloying mime of irate mobs, corrupt politicians, and corporations’ reprobate wiles. They are a spectacle of submission and ideological sodomy. Hence they could have no real access to power even as they make a public show of speaking truth to power.   Achieving Universal Health Coverage     Between Kyari’s suspension and travails     ASUU’s ‘Valentine’ strike   Eitan Hersh, Associate professor of political science at Tufts University identify courtiers as “political hobbyists,” and highlights their perfect contrast in the person and politics of Querys Martias. The 63-year-old Dominican immigrant, resident in Haverhill, United States, presents a rare exemplar to supposedly educated eggheads. For Matias, politics isn’t just a hobby. In her day job, she is a bus monitor for a special-needs school. In her evenings, she amasses power. By leading a group called the Latino Coalition (LC) in Haverhill, she unites the Dominicans, Puerto Ricans, and Central Americans who together make up about 20 percent of Haverhill. The coalition has met with the Haverhill representative in the Congress and asked for regular, Spanish-speaking office hours for its community. It advocates for immigration reform and federal assistance in affordable housing. The coalition has also met with the mayor, the school superintendent, and the police department requesting more Latinos in city jobs and on city boards. Matias’ political participation is strategic; the 63-year-old influences governance to the benefit of her community. The coalition operates with discipline, combining electoral strategies with policy advocacy under her leadership. Unlike Matias, most Nigerian college-educated intellectuals personify the political hobbyist stereotype. They espouse politics of the soapbox, a wanton game in which they debate Nigeria’s big issues on abstract merits – often mouthing off their “superior” logic or sounding off for clout in social space or on government-sponsored think-tanks. Their assemblage thrives on pseudo-realism; their ability to doctor, propound, and market spurious experience. In reality, they are toxic to politics and harmful to the country. Nigeria would do better if her eggheads redirected political energy to serve the people. They could start at the grassroots, where government presence is non-existent, for instance. To re-establish relevance and repair in integrity, Nigeria’s eggheads, revolutionary heroes, youth leaders, or whatever other labels they answer to, must detach from ideological voyeurism and fault-finding – a tactic of assault and defence that eventually becomes their nemesis and tomb. They must seek to empower people. Elite fora like The Platform and showy townhall meetings – hastily conceived at election time – are futile against the scheming and might of predatory oligarchs. For so long, Nigeria’s public intellectuals have united to market cunning and rhetoric, for and against selfish segments of the political class; it’s about time they united in the interest of the electorate. Grassroots politics thrives on empowerment; helping imperiled peasant farming communities defeat insecurity, desert encroachment, and flooding; improving fringe communities’ access to health care, electricity, and good roads, and providing soft loans to unemployed youths, SMEs, and agricultural start-ups would foster societal progress in no small measure. These could be achieved by attaining real political power. Nigeria’s eggheads must seek collaboration in modest and large associations, to meet the immediate and long-term needs of the people. Then, when an election dawns, the community would show up. Call it dividends of their investment in the people’s emotional bank account. Some would call it strategic citizenship. It’s realistic, humane, and real politics. It’s the kind of engagement that public intellectuals must actuate to give substance to their professed clout. And it’s precisely the kind of politicking that helps the electorate shun the tokens and humiliating food packs often handed out by the political class in exchange for their votes at election time. If they could humanely engage with the people, the public intellectuals may attain noble repute, unsullied and deeply rooted from the grassroots to the glitzy corridors of power. They may assume a prideful place in the pantheon of Nigeria’s finest patriots and statesmen. True, fancy repute and ghostly online clout may earn them money in the short run but they will lose it all in the long run to the same system that taught them to be soulless hobbyists. They have used the soapbox and superior intellect as both a mirror and a lens to reflect society’s hypocrisy, moral corruption, and injustice. It’s about time they walked their talk in the interest of Nigeria and the populace.