The absence of Justice Donatus Okorowo of a Federal High Court in Abuja yesterday stalled the hearing of a suit filed by a group against the police over the suspension of Abba Kyari, a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP). Although counsel to the applicant, the Incorporated Trustees of Northern Peace Foundation, Hamza N’Dantani, was in court, the court registrar apologised over the inability of the judge to sit. The matter, which was number six on the cause list, was fixed for April 4 for hearing. Justice Okorowo adjourned the matter till yesterday for hearing. But some activists, under the aegis of Citizens Advocacy Centre (CAC), have urged President Muhamamadu Buhari to reinstate Kyari to reinforce the fight against kidnapping and other forms of criminality across the country. NAN reports that the foundation, in a suit, sought to stop the police and the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) from arresting and extraditing Kyari. - Advertisement - The suit, filed on August 9, 2021, is praying the court to grant a temporary order of injunction against the police and the AGF pending the hearing and final determination of the substantive suit. NAN reported that the matter came up for the first time before Justice Okorowo on January 12.   Lawan: why we are raising N25b for Yobe education     ‘Kano APC factions to reconcile’     North owes Tinubu his presidential aspiration, says Northern…   The case, which was earlier before Justice Ahmed Mohammed, was reassigned to Justice Okorowo. Justice Okorowo, in the last adjourned date, ordered that hearing notices be issued on the parties. NAN reports that Kyari was allegedly indicted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in an alleged multi-million naira advanced fee fraud said to have been perpetrated by a Nigerian citizen, Ramon Olorunwa Abbass, popularly known as Hushpuppi. Also, activists, under the aegis of Citizens Advocacy Centre (CAC), have urged President Muhamamadu Buhari to reinstate Abba Kyari to reinforce the fight against kidnapping and other forms of criminality across the country. The group argued that no criminal case has been established against Kyari. It alluded to the final letter from the Office of the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, claiming that Kyari had been cleared of all allegations. In a statement by its Chairman, Joseph Donald, the group stressed that Malami “never said Nigeria was already holding talks with its U.S. counterpart to extradite Kyari”.