Gift cards are lifesavers when it comes to buying the perfect gifts. But what happens to them when you do not need to redeem them for gift items or personal use? The answer is clear, you sell them for cash or sometimes cryptocurrency on a gift card trading platform. However, gift card traders are most wary of two things; trading at low rates and selling on low-standard platforms. These two problems are what the Prestmit platform solves for its users. Using Prestmit, Gift card traders can rest assured that they are in safe hands and will get instant payment when they trade on Prestmit. Apart from the two benefits, the platform is also easy to use and has a customer support system that is ever willing to help solve problems that you might encounter while trading. More reasons why the Prestmit platform is one of the fastest-rising gift card apps in Nigeria and Ghana. In February 2022, Prestmit launched an update of its app to make it even easier for users to trade gift cards from their mobile phones. On the new app, traders are going to get the same benefits they get on the web platform and something extra.     - Advertisement -    The following are reasons why the Prestmit app is ahead of the pack: Just like the website, the Presmit app is super easy to use and anybody at all can manipulate their way through it. Everybody wants to sell at the highest gift card rates and trading on the app will grant you that. If there is anything Prestmit prides itself in is the fact that they sell at high rates no wonder traders are trooping to the site. No one wants to wait all day to get paid for their transaction and the people at Prestmit know that. This is why they made a payment on the app instantly. It takes 5 minutes or less to get paid either in naira, cedis, or when converting to bitcoin.   Trading like a pro – useful tools you should get to know     How Nigerians are using USDT to hedge funds against…     Your football calendar for the weekend   Technology will have downtimes every now and then and when it does the company’s customer service agents are always there to assist you. Now, this is something extra, when you refer a friend to trade on the app you earn 300 naira. So you do not only earn with your gift cards on the Prestmit app but also with your referrals. How To Download The Prestmit          PRESTMIT ON ANDROID: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.prestmit PRESTMIT ON IOS: https://apps.apple.com/us/app/prestmit/id1581960714 To help you trust the app here are some reviews from users: Gift card trading has become a thing in Nigeria/Ghana and you do not want to miss out on the phenomenon. So download the most reliable app out there and get to trading for Cash or Crypto.   SPONSORED