Abimbola Moyosore Aboderin is a Defence expert, international banker, industrialists and son of first republic politician, Chief Moyosore Aboderin of the Ibadan People’s party and Action Group. In this interview with Yetunde Oladeinde he talks about his passion for Nigeria, support for MKO Abiola, eye witness account of the June 12 1993 election and current efforts to rescue Nigeria. 2023 general elections are around the corner. What do you think Nigerians should do? I know Nigeria very well, I have been around and I understand the terrain. If you want to be a great leader, you have to be strong.  If you don’t have any power, you can’t do much. That informed my involvement in defence. I was with General Babangida and Martin Agwayi who was then a major. I took them to America around 1981 to observe the mobile hospital in DC, North and South South Carolina. So, I left banking and went into defence. They also introduced me to a man in Germany and we went to see what we can do. After that, I took some people in the Navy like Muritala Nyako up on how to manage our oil. Some pirates are underground, you cannot see them. We know the people that want to steal our oil but Nigeria was not ready. I was not interested in making money. I love my country so much. - Advertisement - Let’s talk about the inspiration behind your book on June 12? First of all, history is very important and the past embraces the future.  The book is about what happened during June 12 and things people did not know. I was in the forefront with Adedibu, Abiola’s lawyer and MKO himself. Other people like those in NADECO came in after he won the election. The late MKO was a very good friend and I met him through my father, late Olola Moyosore Aboderin, who was a very quiet but strong politician. When Abiola had problems in the 80s with the Yourubas in NPN, he came to my father to rescue him. Then I had just come back from the US and my father introduced Abiola to me. So, we became friends.  We used to do business together and supplied equipment to the armed forces.  We met people like Babangida, Agwayi, Nyako in the Navy and others in the Air-force and Police. My passion then was to make Nigeria strong. Then I met Abiola again once day at Adedibu’s house in Ibadan. I was always there as a politician. He said he was there for politics and we embraced each other. So, we started from there. I was Adedibu’s landlord. My father owned properties in the area and was very close to him and Abiola as well as Abiola’s lawyer. Tell us about your father’s role in politics? My father was the founder of Ibadan People’s Party in 1951. That party merged with Chief Obafemi Awolowo’s Egbe Omo Oduduwa to form the Action Group (AG), which was in the Southwest. My father won the election conducted by Adelekan and some other prominent Ibadan people. He also has a very successful mother, Alatede. She was so successful that she had properties in London. He had so much money and his mother also gave him money to start business. He was into Cocoa produce and timber before he moved onto oil business.   2023: Rumpus in Ebonyi over zoning arrangements     2023: APC youth leaders rally young Nigerians for victory     PDP chieftain: Northern politicians should respect zoning   He won the election and came first at the Western House and from there he came to the Lagos parliament. In 1963 when they crowned the Queen in England, my father, late Adesoji Aderemi and Kassim Ibrahim were the people that went to represent Nigeria. By 1984 he stopped politics and he was a successful businessman. He and Awolowo were very close. My dad died and Awolowo died a few months after. At what point did you go into politics? I was born into it. I ran for Senate twice. My father was the money bag behind Awolowo. So, he was always discussing politics at home. He came to me in the US and said when you finish your Master’s come home and be a senator. He formed UPN with chief Awolowo. My uncle, Olu Aboderin, is his younger brother and there is over twenty years age difference between them. When I was ready for politics, Adedibu and I became very close. By 6am, I would be in his house reading newspapers for him. When Abiola came, we started politics big time. We were able to raise money for his 1993 campaign; about 300 million naira. That money was in my custody for about 24 hours. If I was a bad guy I would have taken some, but I don’t do that. I am a man of honour and I love this country. I saw Abiola as a man who cared for Nigeria. He used to tell us that he knew suffering as a young man, his stomach used to play music and he was there to stop all this suffering. I also had my personal ambition to be the president at that time but I believed he was the right guy and if he got there, we would run a good government. Tell us about the Jos convention. I remember how the game changed in Jos at the convention.  Abiola was not afraid of the General election but the convention. The north had more delegates than the west. When we were voting we realised that Abiola could not have won the election. So, Baba Adedibu, being a very clever businessman said let us go to Gen. Shehu Yar Adua to convince him. Atiku was the one taking over the structure. And because Adedibu helped Yar’Adua at the previous convention to win, he convinced all the delegates to vote for Abiola and he won. I would also say that Ibrahim Babangida is someone that I knew through the military and he didn’t know that I was already with Abiola. They were very good friends but there were a lot of people between them. Babangida wanted to give power to Abiola. How did you feel about the annulment? At the end of the day, people were hustling around and the election was annulled after all we did. Baba Adedibu sent some warriors from Ibadan to protect Abiola. Then the struggle was hijacked by the NADECO people but I don’t blame them. However, if they had been patient enough MKO would have become President. Our plan was for Abiola to declare abroad. NADECO hijacked him and they were able to convince him to declare here in Nigeria. I saw him coming back on Ikorodu road that day and said oh no! You cannot declare a king in the den of a lion. Abacha was a man who loved power. Abiola thought Abacha would give it to him. Afterwards, he was arrested. The rest is now history. SPONSORED