The Indigenous People of Biafra, (IPOB) has raised the alarm over alleged plans by Nigerian Army to move Obigbo youths held in Kaduna military cell to unknown locations for possible execution. The group demanded unconditional release of the victims which it said had suffered unjustly despite being set free by the court. In a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, IPOB warned that any attempt to execute or kill the youths extra-judicially would be regretted. The secessionist group alleged that the victims had been detained incommunicado for two years, insisting that the Nigerian Army should be held responsible if anything happened to them. The statement reads in part: “Our attention has been drawn to the secret instruction by the Nigerian Army to move all Obigbo youths held in the military cell in Kaduna to an unknown location in the Northern Nigeria for possible execution.   Igboho will be released soon, lawyer claims     Residents panic as dreaded youth gang unleashes mayhem on…     Tukur, Oyebanji, Famodu join board of Fuelmetrics   - Advertisement - “These innocent Biafrans from Obigbo have been held in different detention facilities under inhuman conditions since two years they were unlawfully arrested during the infamous Obigbo massacre in 2020 by the West African new generational Hitler of Rivers State, Gov. Nyesom Wike and the federal government at the heat of the #EndSARS protest because of their hatred against the Igbo Nation in Nigeria. “We are aware that over 500 innocent Biafrans were unlawfully arrested and abducted by the military and evacuated to different secret cells in Abuja and Kaduna Army cells where they are daily tortured, raped and maltreated as animals because they are Igbos. “With great efforts by our legal teams, some of them were released since last year but many are still in custody since two years for committing no crime but being Igbo. “IPOB Intelligence unit has also intercepted secret instruction by the Nigeria Army high command to move the remaining detainees to unknown locations for possible execution and extra-judicial killing.”