Hardly any day passes without a report of murders in Nigeria as if life is so cheap that killing human beings has lost its meaning. Some of the gruesome murders are committed by highway robbers, herders and other miscreants who murder to instil fear into our people. They waylay people and kidnap their victims after which they will ask for huge ransoms which had to be quickly paid or else the lives of their captives would be snuffed out. Sometimes they collect the ransoms and still kill their victims either for fun or for fear of being recognized if and when police capture them. This whole thing is symptomatic of total breakdown of law and order. This breakdown of law and order is due to under-policing or poor policing because there are just not enough police to cover the length and breadth of this vast country. When we make this point, government reacts by giving the Police Service Commission order to recruit more police and the figures bandied around range from10,000 to 100,000. These have been the recurring figures since 2015 and we don’t know if these are actual figures or political figures to silence the demands of the people. When everyone demands that we should have state police, the federal government alone dismisses this unanimous demand by states as unrealistic because most of the states cannot even pay salaries of their civil servants. This is not a good reason. I don’t think the constitution gives the federal government absolute power over internal security. If we are running a proper federation, the states should have power to raise state police and even the local governments and the cities should be empowered to raise their police for maintenance of law and order in their various areas of jurisdictions. The United States which we blindly ape when it suits us gives state, counties, (districts) cities and even colleges and universities powers to have police forces. The argument of not having money to pay them does not hold water. If states and local governments raise police forces, they will pass appropriate legislations to finance them such as levying police tax which our undertaxed people will gladly pay. Aren’t our people paying mai-guardi for personal protection? Don’t we generate our own electricity in the absence of state electricity? Are we not reticulating water from our wells into our homes in the absence of urban water supply? All we ask for is security. If we can’t have what naturally belongs to mankind through the agency of our governments, can this federal government pass legislation to allow those who are willing and able, after proper vetting and background checks, to carry concealed weapons for self-protection? A situation in which some vagrants would barge into our homes and start raping our wives, daughters, mothers and threatening to rape our menfolk is no longer acceptable, if we must say. This is where the failure of government has got us to. The other aspect of this pandemic of murders is the widespread ritual killings and in some cases outright cannibalism! A few cases will drive this point home. Right in the centre of mainland Lagos a few days ago, a middle aged man in Ebute Metta was said to be in the practice of calling unsuspecting people to his home where he would club them and remove vital organs from their bodies and throw their remains into the water channels near his home. He was apparently selling these “spare parts” to “medicine men” for money-making rituals. He was caught after he had murdered four people and hopefully justice will be swift and without mercy based on an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. I hope none of our legal crusaders is thinking of abolishing death penalty in the face of this pandemic of murders. A second example is provided by a young student allegedly of LASU who invited his girlfriend who was in her final year to accompany him to his mother’s home somewhere in Ikire in Osun State for the purpose of her meeting her future mother in law. The young girl from Mowe, a sleepy village in Ogun State excitedly followed her boyfriend to Ikire. On getting there, the mother of the boy told the young lovers from Lagos to follow her to see her “pastor”. Apparently mother and son had planned with the so-called pastor that they were bringing the human sacrifice for their mad money ritual. The poor girl on reaching the pastor was slaughtered while her boyfriend and the mother tied her down like a ram!  The three murderers have been arrested and the poor mother of the murdered girl is waiting for swift and sure justice and I hope the three culprits will be hanged until they are dead!   Miyetti Allah‘s storm in a tea cup     Ikeja Electric’s outrageous bills     Royalty-cum-rascality   - Advertisement - - Advertisement - The third example is the young postgraduate student who lodged in a so-called Hilton Hotel in one of the “Origbo” villages outside Ife. He came to write an examination at Obafemi Awolowo University. He was apparently a regular customer of the hotel. This last time, some people went into his room while he was sleeping, murdered him, wrapped him in the hotel’s bedsheets and buried him in shallow grave not far from the hotel . The owner and some of his staff were arrested and detained in police cell in Osogbo. Somehow the case was transferred to Abuja and from there the Abuja court dismissed the case apparently for lack of jurisdiction and hopefully the Osun judiciary will start de novo the case and hopefully justice will be served! The fourth case in these grisly murders cases was that of two teenage sisters in Asaba Delta State, who colluded with their boyfriends to murder their apparently wealthy father so that they can inherit their father’s wealth. Poor man was murdered by his own children! The case went to court and the judge, God bless him, sentenced the two teenagers to be hanged until they are dead! These girls can go and spend their father’s wealth in hell! Another case was that of a woman running an apparently popular restaurant somewhere outside Umuahia selling human meat and people knowingly go there to eat human meat as if they were cannibals! We were not told how the woman was getting her “meat supply”. She is cooling her feet in police cell. One hopes the case will be well investigated and prosecuted. Cannibals do not belong to any decent society .They must be uprooted and sent to heaven for divine judgement! There was the case of a young graduate looking for a job in Akwa Ibom. She was lured into her death by a young man who was well known to the people where he lived but not to the police until he had committed this heinous case of wasting a young girl who had lots of years ahead of her if things were normal. The final case was the little five-year old Hanifa in Kano. She was kidnapped by the owner of the private school she was attending. The gang apparently owned by the school proprietor demanded for some ransom. It took some time for the poor girl’s parent to deliver the money. By the time the money was delivered, the poor girl was killed and yet these evil ones collected the money. The case has attracted national attention. The president commiserated with the governor of Kano and the wife of the president has gone to Kano to see the governor and the parents of the girl. The president’s wife is calling for swift justice. I join her in this call and in her anger that the state cannot even protect an innocent child from being murdered. There is no country in the world that does not have its criminal challenges. Hundreds of thousands of people in the USA are killed through gun violence every year but at least one has the right to protect oneself through legal ownership of concealed weapons. The problem in the USA is that background check is not thorough thus permitting crazies, mentally incapacitated people and drug heads to buy weapons. In Canada, the United Kingdom, and most of Europe and Asia, rampart murders are a rarity. Nigeria is becoming notorious for many things like Advanced fee fraud, cybercrimes, human smuggling, drug smuggling, prostitution and now pandemic of murders. People suggest it is because of poverty and economic hardship and general hopelessness. Well this may be true but the main cause is lack of policing and corrupt judicial systems which allows criminals to go scot free most of the time. SPONSORED