Advocacy against gender-based violence across the world has been a weekly conversation in society. To eradicate such vice, disciplinary court measures have been set up by local and international communities in the fight to prevent the continued spread of such acts. 1. Mason Greenwood (Manchester United) Mason Greenwood’s girlfriend shared a video of her bruised face and hands, accusing the United player of rape and sexual assault. He was arrested by Manchester police and will remain in custody for questioning. - Advertisement - Manchester United shared a tweet on their position on the issue at hand: “Mason Greenwood will not return to training or play matches until further notice”. Popular sports brand Nike released a statement that ” they suspend their relationship with the player while closely monitoring the situation.” 2. Benjamin Mendy (Manchester City)   No formal probe yet after accusations against former Chelsea…     English Premier League clubs spent almost 400 million…     Aubameyang joins Barcelona as free agent   Manchester City left-back Mendy was accused of rape and sexual assault for a physical attack on five women between October 2020 and August 2021. Despite the negative trait leveled against him, he was released from prison on bail. 3. Xavien Howard (Miami Dolphins) American football cornerback for the Miami Dolphins of the National Football League (NFL) Xavien Howard was accused by his fiancee of abusing her on multiple occasions. In December 2020, his fiancée decided to drop the charges after the accuser declined to press charges. 4. Kareem Hunt (Kansas City Chief) Kansas City Chiefs Kareem Hunt was caught on video abusing a 19-year old woman. He was placed on the exempted list after the video went public while he still got paid for not being active. 5. Josh Brown (New York Giants) Former American football star of New York Giants Josh Brown was accused by his now ex-wife Molly Brown of physical violence of more than 20 incidents. After several investigations, Brown publicly admitted the crime labelled against him. Despite the allegations and his admissions, the Giants showed their allegiance to the abuser by re-signing Brown to a two-year, $4million deal.