The Police Service Commission (PSC) has postponed the verdict on the case involving suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Abba Kyari, who was in charge of the Inspector General of Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT). Kyari had been indicted by a Report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) of the United States and investigated by a Special Panel set up by the Inspector General of Police. The Report had been forwarded to the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice for legal advice by the Inspector General of Police. Not satisfied by the earlier report, PSC also directed that further necessary investigation should: “take half the time it took the Police to conduct the original investigation”, and that the investigation should be carried out by a different panel. The Commission took the decision at the continuation of its 14th Plenary Meeting which ended in Abuja on Thursday chaired by Musiliu Smith, a retired Inspector General of Police and Chairman of the Commission. - Advertisement - PSC also considered 20 Pending Disciplinary Matters and five appeals and petitions from the Inspector General of Police as well as aggrieved serving and ex-Police Officers. According to a statement on Friday by the Head, Press and Public Relations of PSC, Ikechukwu Ani, the commission also considered five promotion appeals. The Commission reaffirmed its earlier decision to exonerate SP Shaaba Adamu Gboyako, a former Chief Security Officer (CSO) to former Inspector General of Police taken at its I9th Plenary Meeting of 28th and 29th September, 2020.   Corps members to enjoy insurance cover as NYSC unveils…     Toxic fuel: Victor Osuagwu ‘orders’ EFCC to…     Ekiti 2022: Bamidele makes U-turn on challenging APC guber…   PSC, Ani said, was mindful of the need to safeguard its corporate image and defend its institutional integrity. It directed the Inspector General of Police to implement its decision as it affects the Officer without delay. The Commission also directed that the judgment of a Kano High Court in an application for enforcement of the fundamental right to life brought by the father of one Abdulkadir Nasiru (now deceased) be forwarded to the Inspector General of Police for implementation of the orders of the court. The appellant was seeking justice for the alleged torture of his son to death by Police. The appeal for accelerated/notional promotion based on merit from CSP Ita Lazarus Udom was also considered and approved by the Plenary. The Commission also approved the adjustments of promotion dates of the Officer from the rank of Superintendent of Police to a Deputy Commissioner of Police in line with his course mates. It considered and promoted 89 staff of the Commission with a promise to ensure that staff promotion will continue to receive priority attention while they should ensure they, at all times put in their best.