The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has raised the alarm over alleged plans by Nigerian Army to move Obigbo youths held in Kaduna military cell to unknown locations for possible execution. The group demanded unconditional release of the victims, which it said had suffered unjustly despite being set free by the court. In a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, IPOB warned that any attempt to execute or kill the youths extra-judicially would be regretted. The secessionist group alleged that the victims had been detained incommunicado for two years, insisting that Army should be held responsible if anything happens to them. The statement reads in part: “Our attention has been drawn to the secret instruction by the Nigerian Army to move all Obigbo youths held in the military cell in Kaduna to an unknown locations in the Northern Nigeria for possible execution. - Advertisement - “These innocent Biafrans from Obigbo have been held in different detention facilities under inhuman conditions since two years they were unlawfully arrested during the infamous Obigbo massacre in 2020 at the heat of the #EndSARS protest because of their hatred against the Igbo Nation in Nigeria. “We are aware that over 500 innocent Biafrans were unlawfully arrested by the military and evacuated to different secret cells in Abuja and Kaduna Army cells. “With great efforts by our legal teams, some of them were released since last year but many are still in custody since two years for committing no crime but being Igbo.   TCN restores 180mw in Egbin power station     I yielded to pressure from friends to form robbery gang…     Three kidnapped Warri lawyers, driver regain freedom   “IPOB Intelligence unit has also intercepted secret instruction by the Nigeria Army high command to move the remaining detainees to unknown locations for possible execution and extra-judicial killing. “It is only the authorities of the Nigeria Army that knows what that order and instruction mean, but any attempt to execute or extra-judicially kill them, the Nigeria Army and fulani controlled Federal Government will regret their actions. Such barbarity will be costly and a blunder NIGERIA will ever live to regret. “We, therefore, want to place the world on notice over this wicked plot by the fulani dominated Nigeria Army and government plots to silence innocent Biafrans without trace. These victims have been detained incommunicado in their custody for two years. “If anything untoward happen to these innocent Biafran youths arrested illegally, the Nigeria Army should be held responsible. “We also want to remind the Federal Government othat we are monitoring them. Should anything untoward happen to these innocent Biafrans, those behind their fate will not escape judgement! “We demand unconditional release of these Biafrans because many have been released by competent courts because they committed no crime and the remaing Obigbo youths still be illegally detained are not different from those set free by competent court of Jurisdiction and must therefore be released. “They have unjustly suffered enough and deserve to be released unconditionally.”