EKO Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) has launched Energy clubs in selected schools within its network to encourage young girls to take opportunities in the power sector. The clubs are expected to promote the interest of female students in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) disciplines, to achieve gender diversity and equity in the Power Sector and other related technical sectors. The launch, which held at Government Secondary School Ikoyi, is in partnership with the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). The schools in the first phase of the year-long programme include Akande Dahunsi Community Secondary School, Ilado Community Junior Secondary School and Wahab Folawiyo Junior High School. EKEDC’s Head Talent Management and Development, Alero Olayiwola, explained that the club activities would run concurrently in the participating schools for a year. During the period, the company would provide the guidelines, curriculum and support the activities of the club before handing over to the participating schools for sustainability.   IE targets 24-hour supply     Can Nigeria meet its production output?     Content board, Navy to partner on NOGICD Act on vessel…   - Advertisement - She said the Programme will sustain the interest and commitment of pupils in STEM subjects and expose them to the knowledge, possibilities and opportunities that abound in the power and other technical sectors. Read Also: IE targets 24-hour supply EKEDC’s Chief Human Resource Officer, Aik Alenkhe said the Energy Club, which is also part of the company’s corporate social responsibility (CSR), is geared towards actualising the company’s mission, vision and core values.   “It is our hope that this commitment to the future of the students particularly the girls, will help to bring about a gender inclusive sector without limitation or barrier to women. It is also our hope to correct the age-long stereotype that has been associated with the power sector as a male dominated sector. For us as a company, we believe that there should be no encumbrance to the opportunities that are open to females in the power sector,”he said. Vice Principal Akande Dahunsi Community Junior Secondary School Alexander Nzekwe noted that the initiative would encourage students to be STEM focused and open them to the opportunities that are available in the sector. Some of the EKEDC female engineers, who spoke at the event, shared their experiences with the students and encouraged them to seize the opportunities in STEM.