Presiding Officers of the two chambers of the National Assembly may become statutory members of the National Security Council if a proposed constitution amendment to that effect sails through. The proposal is one of the amendments now awaiting the votes of federal lawmakers from Tuesday. Other proposed amendments include getting traditional rulers constitutional roles at national and state levels; inclusion of judges of the National Industrial Court (NIC) in the membership of election tribunals; and voting by Nigerians in the diaspora. Bill 46 wants the NSC to be expanded to include the Senate President and House of Representatives Speaker. Present members of the NSC, according to Item 25, Part 1 of the Third Schedule to the Constitution, include the President as Chairman, Vice President (Deputy Chairman), Chief of Defence Staff, Inspector General of Police, National Security Adviser, among others. The Third Schedule of the Constitution reads: “25. The National Security Council shall comprise the following members: (a) the President who shall be the Chairman; (b) the Vice-President who shall be the Deputy Chairman; (c) the Chief of Defence Staff; (d) the Minister of the Government of the Federation charged with the responsibility for internal affairs. “(e) the Minister of the Government of the Federation charged with the responsibility for defence; (f) the Minister of the Government of the Federation charged with the responsibility for foreign affairs; (g) the National Security Adviser; (h) the Inspector-General of Police; and (i) such other persons as the President may in his discretion appoint. Besides, Item 26, Part 1 of the Third Schedule to the Constitution stipulates the role of the NSC thus: “The Council shall have power to advise the President on matters relating to public security including matters relating to any organisation or agency established by law for ensuring the security of the Federation.” However, bill number 46 states that “Item 25, Part 1 of the Third Schedule to the Principal Act is altered by inserting after paragraph (b), new paragraphs “(ba)” and “(bb)” -“(ba) the President of the Senate; and (bb) the Speaker of the House of Representatives.” Explaining why the Presiding Officers of the legislature need to be part of the National Security Council, spokesman of the House of Representatives, Rep. Benjamin Kalu, said the Senate President and the Speaker of the House will always bring legislative perspective to the issue of National Security any time they meet. He said the current arrangement which excludes the NASS presiding officers tends to bring lots of misunderstanding to issues of National Security as they are always not abreast with such issues as agreed upon by the council and are therefore handicapped when security issues come before them. Clause 2 of Bill number 67, which seeks to alter Section 153 of the Constitution, lists National Council of Traditional Rulers and State Councils of Traditional Rulers as part of federal executive bodies created by the Constitution. In this category are the Code of Conduct Bureau, Council of State, Federal Character Commission, Federal Civil Service Commission, Federal Judicial Service Commission and the Independent National Electoral Commission. These institutions are being funded from first line charge by the Federal Government. Bill 67, which makes provision for traditional rulers and institutions, is entitled: “A Bill for an Act to alter the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to establish the National and State Councils of Traditional Rulers to advise the President and Governors on matters related to customs, security and public order; and for related matters.” Section 14A (1) of the Constitution sets criteria for the establishment of the Council, saying: “The National Council of Traditional Rulers shall comprise a Chairman and such number of persons as may be prescribed by An Act of the National Assembly.” Section 14 A(2) states that “the Council shall have power to advise the President on -(a) any matter relating to customary law, cultural affairs, inter-state and chieftaincy matters; (b) the maintenance of security and public order within the country or any part thereof; and (c) such other matters as the President may request or as may be directed by the National Assembly.” It said further that “the Chairman of the Council shall serve as member of the National Security Council.” Clause 3 also seeks to alter part II of the Third Schedule by inserting a new paragraph 7 and 8 which reads that “7. A Council of Traditional Rulers shall comprise of a Chairman and such number of persons as may be prescribed by Law of the House of Assembly of the State. It also states in paragraph 8 (1) that “the Council shall have power to advise the Governor on -(d) any matter relating to customary law, cultural affairs, inter-communal and chieftaincy matters; (e) the maintenance of security and public order within the State or any part thereof; and (f) such other matters as the Governor may request or as may be directed by the State House of Assembly.   PHOTO: Apostle Johnson Suleman prays for Ukraine     Convention, procrastination and prevarication     Electoral Act: Controversy as Buhari seeks amendment of…   “The Bill also seeks the establishment of State Council of Traditional Rulers whose Chairman shall be a member of the State Security Council.” Bill 59 provides for Nigerians in the diaspora to be registered and vote during general elections in the country. The bill seeks to alter the provisions of Section 77 of the Constitution by inserting the word “within and outside”. Subsections (3) and (4) list conditions that must be met by such Nigerians to vote. Subsection (3) stipulates: “To be eligible to vote in accordance with subsection (2) of this section, the citizen of Nigeria shall – be at least 18 years old; hold a valid Nigerian International Passport; have lived in Nigeria for a period of at least five years from a minimum age of ten years old; and be legally resident in any foreign country from where the person seeks to vote in the Nigerian election for at least twelve months. “The Independent National Electoral Commission is expected to issue guidelines for Diaspora voting”. Section 77 of the constitution currently provides for direct election and franchise at the federal level It reads: “(1) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, every Senatorial district or Federal constituency established in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Chapter shall return one member who shall be directly elected to the Senate or the House of Representatives in such manner as may be prescribed by an Act of the National Assembly. “(2) Every citizen of Nigeria, who has attained the age of eighteen years, residing in Nigeria at the time of the registration of voters for purposes of election to a legislative house, shall be entitled to be registered as a voter for that election.” In addition, Section 117 of the Constitution also provides for direct election and franchise at the state level. The section reads: “(1) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, every State constituency established in accordance with the provisions of this part of this Chapter shall return one member who shall be directly elected to a House of Assembly in such manner as may be prescribed by an Act of the National Assembly. “(2) Every citizen of Nigeria, who has attained the age of eighteen years, residing in Nigeria at the time of the registration of voters for purposes of election to any legislative House, shall be entitled to be registered as a voter for that election.” Bill 28 seeks to alter the provisions of the Constitution to include Judges of the National Industrial Court in the composition of Election tribunals. The Bill introduces a new subsection (2) which states that “the Chairman shall be a Judge of a High Court or a Judge of the National Industrial Court and two other members who shall be appointed from among Judges of a High Court, Judges of the National Industrial Court, Kadis of a Sharia Court of Appeal, Judges of a Customary Court of Appeal or other members of the judiciary not below the rank of a Chief Magistrate”. It also introduced a new subsection 3 which states that “the Chairman and other members shall be appointed by the President of the Court of Appeal in consultation with the Chief Judge of the State, the President of the National Industrial Court, the Grand Kadi of the Sharia Court of Appeal of the State or the President of the Customary Court of Appeal of the State, as the case may be.” Judges of the NIC are currently not eligible for appointment as members of election tribunals. During the voting in the National Assembly on Tuesday and Wednesday, each of the amendments will only scale through if it gets the support of two-thirds of members of each of the chambers, that is, 240 in the House and 72 in the Senate. The Senate will vote first and after concluding its own assignment, the process will move to the House of Representatives for concurrence or otherwise. The outcome of the votes on the proposed amendments is then harmonised by both chambers, and the bills will be sent to the Clerk to the National Assembly who, in turn, will transmit them to the State Houses of Assembly for further action. At the state level, two-thirds (24) of the 36 states must approve each clause by a vote of a simple majority, and after the task is done, the amendment takes effect and returns are made to the National Assembly. Any amendment not approved by at least 24 state legislatures is presumed dead and may have to wait for future constitution review exercises. Once the Bills are returned to the National Assembly from the state Houses of Assembly, they will be sent to the President for assent.