Just as well, the Federal Government just withdrew its notice to exit petroleum subsidy.  For the ruling order, that would have been a primer in wilful political suicide, on an election eve.  The opposition would have grabbed that rare plum with divine thanks! Yet, since that announcement, it’s been lamentations galore: how subsidy would stall the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA). The PIA, goes the jeremiad — drip! drip! — has no provisions for subsidy, as everything is “liberalized”.  True. But isn’t this some deja vu of some sort?  Have we not witnessed all of this before? In September 2004, President Olusegun Obasanjo blundered into the “government magic” (apologies to Fela) of liberalizing petroleum downstream by importation. - Advertisement - In 2022, can President Muhammadu Buhari blunder out of it, flashing the PIA as the new magic come to eliminate those other factors (in basic economics-speak) that remain unequal 17 years after? The Obasanjo government didn’t get local refineries ready for downstream deregulation — beyond the media razzmatazz of ramming “market forces” on the browbeaten and the downtrodden. With the preening “reforms” of that era also came a wish — rich and fanciful — that “deregulation” would self-correct; and market forces would send fuel pump prices crashing.  Some wish! In fairness though, “deregulation” was only the “reform” buzz.  Blind panic, sold as policy bravery, forced Obasanjo’s hands: to flee from NNPC’s four refineries. Turn-around maintenance (TAM) and allied repairs had gulped US$ 485.4 million between 1999 and 2003, according to “Deregulation of the oil and gas industry in Nigeria”, a CBN seminar paper delivered by Funsho Kupolokun, then NNPC group managing director. Yet, the refineries delivered not gushing fuel pumps; but bulging pockets, with illicit cash, for party hacks and allied hustlers!  ”No more!” bayed that government — and rightly so. But it’s one thing to flee from a bad path.  It’s another to work hard at correcting the flaws in-there to redeem that path. Doing one but shunning the other has been the bane of this peculiar “deregulation” these past 17 years.  Until you ensure adequate local refining, not even a thousand PIAs can correct the deregulation-stalling, skewed conditions. The good news though is that more than any time since 1999, the objective conditions to drive the PIA, and logically liberalize petroleum downstream (aside from upstream and midstream) appear near. By the third quarter of this year, the US$ 19.6 billion, 650, 000-barrels-a-day Dangote Refinery and Petrochemicals complex would start producing petrol, diesel and allied auto/aero fuels.   The plant is already producing fertilizer. By close to year-end, the four NNPC refineries (combined refining capacity: 445, 000 barrels a day) too are projected to chip in some products, but not at full capacity.  A few private modular refineries too are expected to come on stream. Why all of these won’t, open sesame, banish fuel importation, they should progressively crash the volume of forex spent on such imports, till domestic refiners can satisfy local consumption and thereafter essay exports.   Shonekan’s unforced tragedy     Akande’s hurtful truths     Civil war in paradise   The Dangote complex, by the way, is technically sited “abroad” (in an export processing zone).  So, from Day 1, it has its eye on the export market, aside from its commitment to Nigeria’s local consumption. All these developments make the 18-month subsidy regime stretch not unreasonable, though the now-or-never PIA puritans would screech and scream to the contrary. This lobby is more impressed by cold, howling stats, baying economic “waste and drain”; than the relief such numbers might be offering the real masses with flesh and blood — long-suffering folks that hold the short end of wrong-headed policies. Indeed, the government’s decision to continue with subsidy has been framed in that lobby’s image: barking a near-fatal assault on the PIA, rather than seeing a reasonable wind-down period, which may well grant the PIA a safer birth and eventual healthier life. First, taking headlines from The Nation (by no means the most alarming) is a quiet rue: “Subsidy extension stalls Petroleum Industry Act” (January 26). That seems a quiet prompt at a vicious blame game: who did it?  Why?  And how Nigerian governments are simply incapable of keeping to the letter and spirit of own laws — the customary media hair-splitting that seldom leads to resolving any challenge beyond thunderous blame and zealous finger-pointing. Then, the next day, came the scare tactics: “Government to fund subsidy with N3 trillion in one year” (The Nation, January 27).  Whaaaaaat! — you could almost hear the puritans growl, patriotic keepers of the cold and sacred public books! To be sure, the fuel subsidy cost is humongous, particularly when you factor in the more destructive cost of alleged corruption.  It’s alleged, for instance, that the claimed daily consumption of petrol (55.9 million litres by August 2021) was padded. Still, why is fuel subsidy reported as if it is a high crime against the state; and its beneficiaries as unconscionable bugs, who would rather suck up everything than allow the state to splash such cash on roads, bridges, schools, hospitals and drugs?  Alluring emotive argument! But the converse: why should the ordinary folks, victims of a wrong-headed energy policy, be draped as monsters because they enjoy fuel subsidy; but the policy makers, though authors of suspect decisions, are swooping, no-nonsense, corrective angels? A blind and unthinking class war?  Come to think of it!  The state — through generous perks — has provisioned policymakers enough cushion against own harsh policies. But when those policies bite hard, relief in subsidy, to those that grill in the harsh crucible, suddenly becomes economic sabotage?  An unthinking class war indeed! But wherever you stand on the ideological spectrum, Nigerians owe organized Labour a huge debt of gratitude for frontally challenging subsidy removal.  But for Labour’s mobilization to act, it’s doubtful if the government would have eaten crow. Still, the Buhari presidency deserves more praise, on ways local refining is panning out, than most would grant it. True, on the political front, it’s enlightened self-interest for it not to add the subsidy bomb to its election-year headache.  Only a suicidal government would act otherwise. But even on economics qua economics: putting PIA in limbo for 18 months to ensure it works for all — the book keepers in policy suites; and the folks whose blood boil on the economic street — is tribute to how the government’s domestic refining agenda is shaping up. Better a PIA delay of 18 months with firmer prospects of local refining, than a 17-year deregulation transit to nowhere which, by the hour, throws the economy into a tailspin, the people into deeper misery, and the clime into mass poverty.