All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim has said President Muhammadu Buhari’s assent to the amended Electoral Act will make elections more transparent while the people’s votes will count. In a statement yesterday by his media office in Abuja, Olawepo-Hashim, who was a presidential candidate in 2019 and a global energy executive, said history was made on February 25 when President Buhari assented to the 2022 Electoral Act. The business mogul said Nigerians would now be able to exercise their franchise in a transparent electoral system that reflects their will. He stressed that “the Act contains provisions aimed at making elections more transparent and making the votes of the people count”. Olawepo-Hashim said: “Having credible elections that reflect the will of the people has been an important challenge of Nigeria since the return to democracy in 1999. Elections were massively rigged in 2003 and 2007. Towards 2011, a slow process of electoral reform started that saw some significant improvement in 2015, which sadly relapsed in 2019.   Buhari’s successor must continue rail, road, agric projects,…     INEC: only 18 parties will take part in 2023 general…     Adamu storms out of meeting with NANS after students’ attack   “The effect of public perception that the electoral system is not clean has for long been increasing voters’ apathy in our country. “Credible periodic election is the hallmark of democracy and it is the vehicle of expression of sovereignty of the people’s will.” The APC chieftain explained that “democracy is not simply about building roads, providing electricity, water and police service”. He added: “Essentially, democracy is about the rights of the people to choose who governs them through a transparent electoral system that reflects their will… “Democracy is a system as well as a process. This huge step is just the beginning. There is still a lot of work to be done to make our democracy stronger and our union more improved. “Every citizen has a role to play and those who are qualified to vote but have not registered, no longer have any excuse not to do so. This is because now, every vote will count. It is a New Day for Nigeria!”