German coach Gernot Rohr has ruled himself out of the vacant managerial position in Ghana, adding his intimacy with the rank and file of Nigerian football would not allow him to take charge of the Black Stars. Rohr was disengaged as Super Eagles’ trainer by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) in December on the eve of the Africa Cup of Nation (AFCON) where the Black Stars incidentally failed to go beyond the first round, following a poor run of results including losses to Morocco (1-0); Comoros (3-2) and a 1-1 draw with Gabon. Subsequently, the Black Stars’ Serbian coach Milovan Rajevac was sacked immediately as the Ghana Football Association (GFA) began searching for a new manager for the four-time African champions. While the GFA is reportedly considering the likes of former Ghanaian international and current assistant coach at Dortmund Otto Addo as well as Irish-Ghanaian coach and former Nottingham Forest manager Chris Hughton, there have been speculations in both the Ghanaian and Nigerian media linking the immediate Super Eagles manager to the Black Stars’ job. But Rohr has categorically told NationSports that he has not sought to coach the Black Stars for obvious reasons.   Eguavoen submits AFCON technical report     Gunmen kidnap 15 in Ondo, Ekiti     Court restrains FUOYE, NUC from replacing Registrar, Bursar   - Advertisement - “Reports linking me to the Black Stars is another fake news,” the 68-year- old Rohr, who had previously managed Niger, Burkina Faso, and Gabon, told NationSports. Yet some Ghanaian news outlets claimed an agent was supposedly speaking to the GFA on behalf of the former Bordeaux coach. “I don’t have any agent and nobody is intensifying my candidature (to coach Ghana),” Rohr noted in his usual frankness. “Of course, some countries contacted me; and not me (contacting then) but the countries.” Pressed further on why the former Gold Coast was not an option for him, Rohr in his usual Teutonic characteristics thundered: “It would be difficult for me to fight against my former team.” Meanwhile, the GFA is reportedly at loggerheads with members of the Ghanaian Parliament over the suitable candidate for the vacant Black Stars’ coaching position ahead of the crucial Qatar 2022 World Cup Play-Off against the Super Eagles in March.