Reports from various research groups have shown that fraudsters continue to unleash rapacious attacks on unsuspecting people fleecing them of their hard earned cash, LUCAS AJANAKU reports. He just came back from Sunday service and was taking a shot nap in his bedroom. Suddenly a call came; he sprang from his bed and picked it. The caller identified himself a customer care agent from his bank. He called the full name he used to open the account, including his date of birth and other details. He told him there was an urgent need to upgrade certain information on his account, failure of which he stood the risk of being unable to access the account. Seventy-five-year-old Pa Kokumo Johnson (not real) was overwhelmed by the threat to the cash in his bank account. Convinced that the caller, having supplied the information in his account, except the bank verification number (BVN), was from his bank, he supplied the Personal Identification Number (PIN) of his automated teller machine (ATM) card with caller. Baba had forgotten that no bank customer care agent would call on a Sunday. Before he knew it, these unscrupulous elements started withdrawing cash from his account. Since it was a Sunday, they withdrew up to the maximum threshold allowed. By 12.30am, they went on another round of withdrawal spree and also attained the maximum limit. By the time the bank opened for normal business on Monday, they had dealt a terrible blow to his feeding allowance. Pa Johnson is just but one out of several others in his age bracket that have fallen victim to these irritants.They come in a manner that leaves no one in doubt that they are authentic agents of the banks they claim to represent. “There are so many armed robbers in the banking halls. They are the ones that collude with others outside the banking system to wreak havoc,” Kunle Olanrewaju, a civil servant who had also fallen victim to their pranks said. - Advertisement - In line with the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN’s) policy to discourage the use of cash and embrace electronic or e-payment channels, the crooks have also perfected ways to dupe people. According to a data released by Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS), as more Nigerians embrace e-payment platforms, fraudsters have also upped their game in their attacks leading to a 186 per cent increase in financial frauds from 16,128 in 2019 to 46,126 in 2020. According to its fraud report, criminals now focus more on the mobile payment system, hence, fraud attempts on mobile increased by 330 per cent between January and September 2020. The shift in attention to mobile may not be unconnected to the fact that many bank customers now rely on their mobile for financial transactions. This was also evident from the NIBBSS report on mobile transactions, which showed that bank customers transferred a total of N3.05 trillion through mobile in 2020. This represented a whopping 268 per cent increase over N828 billion mobile deals recorded in 2019. Aside from the mobile, NIBSS in the Q3 2020 fraud report disclosed that the fraudsters are also targeting web payment and Point of Sales (PoS) both of which recorded 173 per cent and 215 per cent increase in fraud attempts in the nine-month. According to the report, the financial system lost a total of N5.2 billion to fraudsters in nine months. It added that the fraudsters attempted attacks 46,126 times, and they were successful on 41,979 occasions, representing 91 per cent. A cyber security solutions provider, Check Point, in its Research Threat Intelligence Report for Nigeria, said globally, the number of attacks experienced per business each week is 870 on average – in Nigeria, this weekly figure is 2,308 across all industry sectors collectively. The more-granular per-industry analysis reveals this figure is higher still for businesses in the finance and banking sector. “Over the last six months, the number of attacks against these institutions in Nigeria was 3 682 per week, while globally, this figure is far lower at 774. To protect this booming industry, more must be done to drive awareness around cybersecurity,” its Software Technology Regional Director for Africa, Pankaj Bhula, was reported to have said by ITWeb Africa. The report also revealed that, over the past six months, 62 per cent of Nigeria’s businesses fell victim to Remote Code Execution (RCE) attacks, making this the top class of vulnerability exploits. A cybercriminal can gain remote control to a device and the private data stored on it in an RCE attack. Considering the most targeted sector is finance, which holds a wealth of sensitive user data, the rise of RCE attacks is concerning, the report added. Check Point Software Technologies forecast several alarming cyber-threat trends for this year, including the weaponisation of deepfake technologies by cybercriminals to create fake news campaigns as part of elaborate phishing attacks, predominantly carried out over email. In fact, in Nigeria, email was recorded as the origin point for 60per cent of cyberattacks over the last month, according to the report. As it’s the prevailing vector for delivery of malicious files, awareness around social engineering attacks like these must be bolstered. On deepfake technologies, president of the Cyber Security Experts Association of Nigeria, Remi Afon, said it’s a huge area of concern this year. While the technology can be leveraged by criminals to scam and dupe victims, a more insidious purpose is using deepfakes to create political instability and scandal. For Afon, this technology and the resulting spread of misinformation could have far-reaching ramifications for Nigeria’s 2023 General Election, to be held next February. Also, the Nigerian Communications Commission’s Cyber Security Incident Response Team (NCC-CSIRT) has been alerting the public cyber vulnerabilities and has been advising telecom consumers on the measures to be taken to get protected from the cyber-attacks.   Growth Africa, LBS train 50 tech startups     Inlaks, Temenos deploy payment hub for Bank of Kigali     How e-commerce technology improves micro, small businesses   The CSIRT, in its first-ever security advisories less than three months after its creation, identified two cyber-attacks targeting the consumers and proffered solutions that can help telecom consumers from falling victims to the two cyber vulnerabilities. The first is described as Juice Jacking, which can gain access into consumers’ devices when charging mobile phones at public charging stations and it applies to all mobile phones. The other is a Facebook for Android Friend Acceptance Vulnerability, which targets only Android Operating System. According to CSIRT security Advisory 0001 released on January 26, 2022, with Juice Jacking, attackers have found a new way to gain unauthorized entry into unsuspecting mobile phone users devices when they charge their mobile phones at public charging stations. Many public spaces, restaurants, malls and even in the public trains do offer complementary services to their customers in a bid to enhance customer services, one of which is providing charging ports or sockets. However, an attacker can leverage this courtesy to load a payload in the charging station or on the cables they would leave plugged in at the stations. Once unsuspecting persons plug their phones at the charging station or the cable left by the attacker, the payload is automatically downloaded on the victims’ phone. This payload then gives the attacker remote access to the mobile phone, allowing them to monitor data transmitted as text, or audio using the microphone. The attacker can even watch the victim in real time if the victims’ camera is not covered. The attacker is also given full access to the gallery and also to the phone’s Global Positioning System (GPS) location. When an attacker gains access to a user’s Mobile phone, he gets remote access to the User’s phone which leads to breach in Confidentiality, Violation of Data Integrity and bypass of Authentication Mechanisms. Symptoms of attack may include sudden spike in battery consumption, device operating slower than usual, apps taking a long time to load, and when they load they crash frequently and cause abnormal data usage. The NCC-CSIRT, however, proffered solutions to this attack to include using ‘charging only USB cable’, to avoid Universal Serial Bus (USB) data connection; using one’s AC charging adaptor in public space; and not granting trust to portable devices prompt for USB data connection. Other preventive measures against Juice Jacking include installing Antivirus and updating them to the latest definitions always; keeping mobile devices up to date with the latest patches; using one’s own power bank; keeping mobile phone off when charging in public places; as well as ensuring use of one’s own charger, if one must charge in public. On the other hand, the NCC-CSIRT Advisory 0001 of January 27, 2022, warns that Facebook for Android is vulnerable to a permission issue which gives privilege to anyone with physical access to the android device to accept friend requests without unlocking the phone. The products affected include Versions 329.0.0.29.120 of Android OS. With this, the attacker will be able to add the victim as a friend and collect personal information of the victim, such as Email, Date of Birth, Check-ins, Mobile phone number, Address, Pictures and other information that the victim may have shared, which would only be visible to his/her friends. However, to be protected from the Facebook-associated vulnerability, NCC-CSIRT in the security advisory recommends to users to disable the feature from their device’s lock screen notification settings. NCC-CSIRT had alerted members of the public that a cybercrime group had perfected a New Year scheme to deliver ransomware to targeted organizational networks. The new ransomware uncovered by security experts was categorisedas high-risk and critical. According to the ngCERT advisory, the criminal group is said to have been mailing out USB thumb drives to many organisations in the hope that recipients will plug them into their PCs and install the ransomware on their networks. While businesses are being targeted, criminals could soon begin sending infected USB drives to individuals. Describing how the cybercrime group runs the ransomware, the ngCERT advisory said the USB drives contain so-called ‘BadUSB’ attacks. The BadUSB exploits the USB standards versatility and allows an attacker to reprogram a USB drive to emulate a keyboard to create keystrokes and commands on a computer. It then installs malware prior to the operating system booting, or spoofs a network card to redirect traffic. Numerous attack tools are also installed in the process that allows for exploitation of personal computers (PCs), lateral movement across a network, and installation of additional malware. The tools were used to deploy multiple ransomware strains, including BlackBatter and REvil. According to ngCERT, the attack has been seen in the US where the USB drives were sent in the mail through the postal and parcel services. One type contained a message impersonating the US Department of Health and Human Services and claimed to be a COVID-19 warning. Other malicious USBs were sent in the post with a gift card claiming to be from Amazon. However, ngCERT has offered recommendations that will enable corporate and individual networks to mitigate the impact of this new cyber-attack and be protected from the ransomware. These recommendations include a call on individuals and organisations not to insert USB drives from unknown sources, even if they’re addressed to you or your organization. In addition, if the USB drive comes from a company or a person one is not familiar with and trusts, it is recommended that one contacts the source to confirm they actually sent the USB drive. Finally, ngCERT has advised ICT as well as other Internet users to report any incident of system compromises to ngCERT via *incident@cert.gov.ng,* for technical assistance.