Actress Moyo Lawal has revealed she almost made the decision to quit her profession. She made this disclosure on her Instagram page as she shared a video compilation of some of the characters she’s had to play in movies while she reminisced on her career journey. Lawal explained that she almost called it quit with acting because people were taking her for the characters she portrayed in movies. According to her, people also demanded unquestionable understanding by assuming she ought to be able to relate with their struggles because she has also gone through the same, forgetting she only acted out a role. Continuing, the extra curvaceous entertainer said she’s come to the point where she has become totally exhausted from explaining to people that she isn’t the same as the characters she portrays in movies. - Advertisement -   Obi Cubana commences road construction in Oba     Actor Leonard advises fans on personal productivity     Mercy Eke shares messages that won her BBNaija slot   So, she has decided to leave people at the mercy of whatever impression of her that exists in their minds and heads. She posted: “At some point … I didn’t want to act anymore, because I realized people couldn’t understand that I was just playing a character …. …. (Like how do I start explaining that I just read a script when people expect me to understand what they are going through because I went through it even though I have in reality never gone through it. “I can’t even start to break it down for you to understand right now … like asking me, how I am coping with losing my husband? As how? …. “Asking me, how many places I worked as a maid before I got my big break koyemi oooh ..pardon?? Asking me all sorts and seeing all sorts of assumptions … my God …. “Anyways, this is just a few of my characters, it was nostalgic going down memory lane and I think , it is about time I did a professional showreel (never done one before) …. I did include a few recent … … “P.S Ayam not my characters jare … all you people that think, I am crazy, this … that …. … anyhow, I give up believe what you may …”