Less than 24 hours after it was hit by the regulatory hammer , Dana Air yesterday  expressed mixed  feelings about   its short stay off the skie, describing the suspension by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) as painful and heart breaking. The carrier said though it has braced up for the NCAA’s operational audit , it is ,however, hopeful of scaling the technical hurdle In a statement by its spokesman, Kingsley Ezenwa, the carrier said it has commenced the operational audit as prescribed by the regulator affirming that its personnel were fully cooperating to ensure quick return to flight operations. Ezenwa said: “We have commenced the operational audit as advised by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority and we are fully cooperating with the NCAA to ensure our quick return to flight operations. “Operational Audits are regulatory and airlines are required to suspend their operations when the regulator calls for it and we are confident that having been successful in previous audits, we will come back even stronger and better’’. “The audit is also an opportunity for us to prove once again and reassure our guests, clients and partners that we remain strong, safe, efficient and reliable.   Adron Homes offers healthcare to communities     Stakeholder seeks end to multiple taxation in ports     NBC’s investment crosses 1 billion euros   “As an airline, we are not insulated from the multiple challenges airlines and the aviation industry is  grappling with daily which includes the recent skyrocketing cost of aviation fuel at N830/ltr, unavailability of forex, ground handling services, inflation, multiple taxation amongst other operational challenges which airlines have made frantic efforts to communicate to the flying public and the government.’ “ While this short stay off the market remains painful and heartbreaking for us, our customers, clients and partners, we remain very hopeful and very confident of our position. “Our offices will remain open to our travel partners, clients and our customer service will still be operational 24/7 as always to assist customers with necessary information. “Our customers with unused tickets have also been advised to apply for refunds by sending an email to contact@flydanaair.com with their details and we will try and resolve it in a timely manner. “We wish to sincerely apologize to all affected customers, clients and travel partners for any inconveniences caused and crave your understanding and patience in the cause of this audit.”   Story By Kelvin Osa Okunbor and Oyindamola Mustapha