The statistics are startling. Yet, they are revealing. An estimated 37 per cent of the world’s population or 2.9 billion people have still never used the internet, data from the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), the United Nations (UN) agency for information communication technologies (ICTs), last year showed. It nonetheless showed strong global growth in internet use, with the estimated number of people who have used the internet surging to 4.9 billion last year, from an estimated 4.1 billion in 2019. The strong growth since 2019 was largely driven by increases in developing countries such as Nigeria with a youthful population, where internet penetration climbed more than 13 per cent. Yet, many communities in Nigeria still remained either unserved or underserved with digital infrastructure, according to studies by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), which has undertaken several measures, including deploying resources from the Universal Service Provision Fund (USPF). Sadly, many of these ‘digitally excluded’ communities face formidable challenges, including poverty, illiteracy, limited access to electricity, and lack of digital skills and awareness.   UPDATED: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd     Ondo lawmaker, farmers protest alleged forceful farmland…     BREAKING: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd   The importance of affordable and ubiquitous broadband penetration cannot be overemphasised in economic development. A World Bank report said a 10 per cent increase in broadband penetration will result in between 2.6 per cent and 3.8 per cent growth in gross domestic product (GDP). Realising this, the Federal Government had unveiled the Nigeria National Broadband Plan (NBP) 2020-2025 with the ambitious targets of delivering data download speeds of about 25 megabits per second (Mbps) in urban areas and 10Mbps in rural areas. It also targeted covering at least 90 per cent of the population and penetration rate of 70 per cent by the end of the plan’s lifetime. The pursuit of a digital economy informed the Federal Government‘s decision to rename the Federal Ministry of Communications to the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy in October 2019 as well as the unveiling of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) 2020-2030 in November of the same year. At the implementation of the country’s NNBP, which started in 2020, subscriptions had declined steadily for months as a result of the Federal Government’s policy on subscriber identity module (SIM)-National Identity Number (NIN) regulation. From a peak point of 45.93per cent in October 2020, broadband penetration in Nigeria slipped to 39.79 per cent last July. Between November 2020 and last October, the service providers had lost a total of 9.9 million broadband subscriptions. Before the ban on new SIM in 2020, the country had been recording a one per cent increase each month, as the mobile network operators continued to push for the deployment of 4G service across the country. Between January and October 2020, broadband connectivity in the country increased by 15.5 million.