The ruling All Progressives Congress(APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has described Rev. Daniel Okoh the newly elected President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) as a worthy and distinguished leader. The APC standard bearer extended his congratulations to Okoh, in a statement by his media aide, Tunde Rahman in Abuja on Friday. Rev. Okoh was elected on Monday to succeed Rev. Samson Olusupo Ayokunle, upon completion of his tenure as head of CAN. Tinubu noted that the new CAN leader, who is the General Superintendent of Christ Holy Church, is a worthy successor to Rev. Ayokunle whose tenure as CAN president was characterised by exceptional commitment, principle and wisdom. The APC leader declared that Nigeria can only expect nothing but inspired and enlightened leadership from Rev. Okoh. He said: “CAN is one of the most important organisations in the nation. Not only does it seek the betterment of the Christian community in Nigeria, its moral force and standing benefit all Nigerians as we seek to establish a just and compassionate society where people of all faiths and beliefs live and work together in peace and harmony.   Oyo declares Monday work-free for Hijrah     Ngige’s community ‘at war’ over…     Kanu’s lawyer accuses DSS of detaining staff since 2021   “As a nation, we are in a critical moment where misguided and terrible actors attempt to destroy social harmony and reign violence on us all. “These awful forces seek to stoke religious and ethnic divisions in hope of pitting Nigerian brothers against Nigerian brothers. Decent and good Nigerians of all faiths must ally again with such designs. “While we may not agree on everything, all well-meaning Nigerians agree that we must live in peace, must respect and honour our diversity and eschew violence and hatred. “We are grateful that CAN as an organisation embodies these and other principles that reflect the values and virtues of Christ. “We are glad that the new President of CAN, Rev. Okoh, is a humane and kind soul who has dedicated his life to the betterment of his fellow man and is a person who will work with leaders of other faiths and beliefs to anneal the bonds of unity, inter-religious understanding and tolerance while advocating for the benefits of democratic good governance for all Nigerians regardless of creed or belief systems. “As long as we stand forthright and adhere to these tenets, Nigeria will defeat the plans of those who seek to place discord and hatred at our door. “As Rev. Okoh assumes the mantle of leadership, it is my hope and prayer that his tenure brightens every corner of our country and may he be a shining light to all.”