A Professor of Public Administration and independent scholar, Prof. Ladipo Adamolekun, has advised political parties to stop adopting former military leaders as party leaders or as candidates for elective offices. He said the two recycled military leaders who have served as Presidents during the post-1999 era have demonstrated clearly that military culture trumps democratic culture and a civilianised Nigeria military leader could not be a democrat. Adamolekun spoke at the presentation of his latest monograph, titled: Nigeria and I: Getting Politics Right to Make Nigeria Work, in Akure, the Ondo State capital.  The event was part of activities lined up for his 80th birthday celebration. The eminent scholar warned against electing lawmakers who depend on politics to survive. He said: “To enhance our chances of keeping Nigeria one, consolidating democracy, tackling insecurity effectively, and achieving accelerated socioeconomic progress, Nigeria needs to urgently adopt and function as a devolved federal system. “This political system will have the following defining characteristics: six federating units; assignment of functions between the central government and the federating units based on the principle of subsidiarity similar, to a considerable extent, to the assignment of functions in the country’s 1963 Constitution; and allocation of resources that is consistent with both the imperative of fiscal federalism and the proposed increased functions for subnational governments. “The goal should be to ensure the legitimacy of governments and a functioning law-based state that would help promote accountable governance.   ‘Kerosene price rose by 12.09% in June’     Dockworkers shut terminals     CAF AWARDS 2022: Oshoala may pick record fifth African …   “The country’s lack of administrative competence that is largely responsible for poor service delivery to the citizens since 1999 was recently acknowledged by incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari in his Independence Day speech on October 1, 2021. “To reverse this lack of administrative competence would require rapidly updating and implementing comprehensively the largely neglected National Public Service Reform Strategy (2009). “When a nation is facing a crisis of the dimensions we faced, we need to have a national dialogue, not the type of National Conference for political reasons but a national dialogue on the Nigerian crisis. The ideas are out there but they are not just implemented. “Unfortunately, we have politicians who lived off politics. If they were in politics to serve the people, they would think along the direction at what is good for the people, how to deliver services to citizens across the state of the federation. “There are some issues raised in the 2014 political conference report that can move the country forward. However, it is false to claim that the report has all the answers. “For instance, the illogical idea that Nigeria should have 58 states is in that report. That is illogical because the devolve federation I talked about cannot be achieved through 58 states.” The General Manager/Editor-in-Chief of Vanguard Media Limited, Mr. Gbenga Adefaye, said the nation’s leadership was not listening to voice of reasoning and wisdom from the intellects and academics to push the country to higher height. Present at the event were senior political editors and public intellectuals, like a Professor of Chemical Engineering and the pioneer Vice Chancellor of the Federal University, Otuoke, in Bayelsa State, Nigeria, Prof. Mobolaji Ebenezer Aluko; Prof. Adele Jinadu; former Education Minister, Prof. Tunde Adeniran. Others are: Joe Abbah, Prof. Kemi Rotimi, Prof. Niyi Akinaso, Prof. Isaac Obasi, Prof. Bayo Aborisade, among others.