The Ekiti State governorship election, and the July 16 Osun State election, will be a litmus test for peaceful, credible, transparent and widely-acceptable general elections in 2023, Commandant-General of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, (NSCDC ) Ahmed Audi said yesterday. Audi gave the security agencies a pass mark for the Ekiti election, and hoped the feat will be repeated in the coming ones. He addressed zonal, state commandants and principal officers of the NSCDC at the second Commandant-General Conference at the headquarters of the Corps in Abuja. According to him, intelligence sharing and strategic collaboration among the security agencies was responsible for their success during the election. He said it was imperative for such synergy to be extended towards protecting critical national infrastructures, and checkmating the activities of bandits, kidnappers and terrorists in the Nigerian. Audi, who spoke on a wide range of issues regarding efforts to reposition and rejig the Corps to meet international best practices and standards, said training and man-power development will be vigorously pursued to advance the status of the Corps.   826 Plateau pilgrims set for Saudi Arabia     MSSN holds Ummahaat conference     Hospital laments N44m monthly diesel expenditure   He added: “The prevailing security situation has made it mandatory for us to redouble our efforts as we gradually approach the electioneering campaign season leading up to the 2023 general elections. “This is the time for us to begin to tighten our seat belt and, as the ‘Chief Pilot’, it is my duty to provide the needed guide, leadership and direction as we collaborate and synergise with our sister agencies and other stakeholders to deliver to Nigerians, free, fair and credible elections come 2023. “If we must succeed, the time to start the necessary preparation is now. We must begin to deploy new strategies in tackling insecurity if we must effectively protect the electorate, electoral materials and umpires during the elections. “Let us, therefore, remain resilient and committed to working collaboratively with sister security agencies and other stakeholders, while we remain agile and steadfast to manage the risks thrown up by events leading to the election. We must also be combat ready to protect the citizens of this great country and secure our critical national assets and infrastructure against new and evolving threats…”