There is a growing hue and cry over the dominance of Ibadan indigenes in Oyo State politics. It is extremely difficult for politicians outside the axis, to win governorship elections in the state, owing to the obvious population advantage of Ibadan over other towns and communities. Oyo State is made up of five broad political zones: Ibadan, Oyo, Ogbomoso, Oke-Ogun and Ibarapa. But, since politics is a game of numbers, Ibadan has an edge over the other zones. With 11 out of 33 local governments, Ibadan also has the majority of local governments in Oyo South and Oyo Central senatorial districts. It has six out of the nine councils that make Oyo South, leaving Ibarapa with three; and five out of the 11 that make Oyo Central, while Oyo has four councils, Ogbomoso has two. Over the years, Ibadan indigenes usually emerge as the senators representing the districts. Since Osun State was carved out of the old Oyo State in 1991, seven governors have been elected. Only one of the lots, the late Adebayo Alao-Akala, was a non-Ibadan indigene. The late Chief Kolapo Ishola, an Ibadan indigene, was elected governor in 1991/92 during the aborted Third Republic. On the return to civil rule in 1999, the late Lam Adesina, another Ibadan indigene, was elected governor. He was succeeded by yet another Ibadan indigene, Sen. Rashidi Ladoja. The latter was succeeded by Alao-Akala, who hailed from Ogbomoso. The late Abiola Ajimobi, another Ibadan indigene, took over from Alao-Akala in 2011, while the incumbent Seyi Makinde, also an Ibadan indigene, succeeded him. It is not that non-Ibadan indigenes are not trying enough to be elected as governor but the odds are against them because of population distribution which favours Ibadan. For this reason, major political parties which have the popularity and political structures to win governorship elections in the state seem to be always unwilling to risk their ticket by handing it over to non-Ibadan indigenes. For instance, only Ibadan indigenes won the tickets of both the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) in 2015, 2019 and for next year’s general elections. Prior to 2015, the defunct Alliance for Democracy (AD) and Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) handed their governorship tickets to Ibadan indigenes. Only the PDP gave a non-Ibadan indigene, Alao-Akala a chance in 2007, and the circumstance that led to his emergence was controversial. Though Alao-Akala tried so hard to win a second term, he was roundly defeated. Since then, no non-Ibadan indigene has occupied Agodi Government House. The chances are getting slimmer daily, thereby raising concern among them and some Ibadan indigenes that see it as pure dominance that may be preparing the grounds for a doomsday. The state’s population stands at 8.3 million, according to the Nigerian Investments Promotion Commission (NIPC). Of the number, populationstat.com estimated Ibadan alone as housing 3.7 million residents, representing 44.7 per cent of the total. The last three governorship elections in the state show that Oyo State has 950, 000 average voting strength. For instance, the three leading governorship candidates in the 2011 election – Ajimobi of the ACN, Ladoja of the Accord Party and Alao-Akala of the PDP garnered a total of 1,083,757 votes across the state. About 51 per cent of the above figure (552,994 votes) came from Ibadan. Oke-Ogun was next with 216,299 votes, representing 19.9 per cent, while Ogbomoso recorded 151,803 votes which translated to 14 per cent. Oyo and Ibarapa had 105,020 (9.6 per cent) and 57,641 (5.3 per cent) respectively. The next governorship election in 2015 also showed a similar pattern with Ibadan accounting for 47 per cent, leaving Oke-Ogun with 23 per cent, Ogbomoso with 15 per cent, Oyo with nine and Ibarapa with six per cent respectively. While a total of 427,662 voted in Ibadan, 204,056 voted in Oke-Ogun, 135,590 in Ogbomoso, 84,888 in Oyo and Ibarapa 54,674. A total of 920,000 voted. The pattern was consolidated in 2019. In the election, a total of 937,545 votes were recorded for all the governorship candidates out of whom a whopping 46 per cent (435,020) were recorded in Ibadan alone. Oke-Ogun recorded 222,100 (or 23.6 per cent), Ogbomoso 122,634 (or 13 per cent), Oyo 94,263 (or 10 per cent) and Ibarapa 63,528 (or 6.7 per cent) respectively. This trend and reality stare non-Ibadan indigenes in the face like an insurmountable mountain which forms the basis of their cries of marginalization. In his book entitled Amazing Grace, the autobiography released to mark his 70th birthday in 2020, Alao-Akala bemoaned the inequality between Ibadan and other zones. Devoting a chapter with the topic “Ibadan and the Rest of Us” to the issue, Alao-Akala said his mission in the book was not to disparage or discredit Ibadan but to highlight the plight of non-Ibadan indigenes who were angry at the Ibadan dominance in producing governors since 1983.   Fed Govt: petrol scarcity will linger until full…     Kuje prison: 64 Boko Haram suspects escape after attack     Kuje: Day terrorists wreaked havoc   He wrote: “This is not an attempt to take a swipe at Ibadan but rather to impress upon her the realities of a state that belongs to all of us and to drive home the point that equality is the core priority of democracy.” Akala groaned that while the rotational presidency has become part of Nigeria’s polity since 1997 to promote inclusiveness and a sense of belonging among all Nigerians, the experience has been the opposite in Oyo State. He wrote: “…Let me recall here that the 1997 National Confab made bold attempts at resolving the segregation that had characterised our politics at the federal level when it addressed the issue of the rotational presidency between the north and the south. The 2014 National Confab also made a case for that. Though rotation of the presidency is not captured by the consequent 1999 Constitution, it has nonetheless become a compelling feature of our political culture since then. Political parties and players at the national level and in many states have reflected the tenet since the advent of the nation’s nascent democracy. However, that pact seems not to have penetrated Oyo State. “It is agreed that merits such as robust antecedents, intrinsic personal capacity, genuine knowledge of the people and capacity to sell the vision to the people should determine who becomes governor in the state and not whether one belongs to the majority or the minority groups. Nevertheless, merit cannot be the exclusive preserve of only a section of the state. There is no doubt that the primordial holding on to power by the Ibadan people, under whatever guise, has become primitive and embarrassing.” Alao-Akala insisted that as Yoruba agitated for power shift to the south in 2023, “it is expected that it should ensure that charity begins from its domain by rising to stop the domination of a section by another as it obtains in Oyo State”. He added: “It is not an exaggeration to opine that the Ibadan attitude to power has become segregationist and outrightly sectional. This attitude has encouraged the impression that the marginalised people of the vast geopolitical zones of Oyo, Ogbomoso, Oke-Ogun and Ibarapa have been immensely pivotal to the outcome of governorship elections in the state can only be kingmakers and not kings themselves.” Referencing a former governor, Dr Omololu Olunloyo, Alao-Akala traced the origin and sustenance of Ibadan’s political dominance to the city’s elite working under the auspices of the Ibadan Council of Elders. He explained that the council began to influence the choice of governorship election candidates in 1991, arguing that it was the same council that opposed his re-election in 2011 with a campaign for his replacement by an Ibadan indigene. To solve the problem, he called for a consensus that will see qualified candidates from other zones make Agodi Government House. He called for a rotation of governorship among the three senatorial districts for equity and inclusiveness. A prominent Ibarapa indigene, Dr Ismail Adewusi, also deplored the situation, stressing that the state belongs to all indigenes. When asked if his place of origin was responsible for his failure to pick the ACN governorship ticket in 2011, Adewusi, who is currently the Postmaster General of the Federation, said: “The issue of where you come from actually plays a role in the emergence of leaders, particularly in Oyo State. Since we returned to democracy in 1999, there have been kind of seamless developments across the seven zones of Oyo State. I want to see in my lifetime a governor that will emerge from the Ibarapa zone. I want to see other zones also bring up governors because the state belongs to all of us.” Asked if the dream is possible given the reality of population distribution which favours Ibadan, Adewusi asserted that Ibadan will not dominate others forever. Commenting on the issue, a notable politician from Oke-Ogun, Prof. Adeolu Akande, who is the chairman of the Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC) said: “I believe that every society must promote equity for peace and development, and Oyo State should not be an exception. If a society pushes the argument of population advantage for recruitment of leadership at the expense of equity, it runs the risk of creating resentment amongst a sizeable population of the citizenry. No society makes sustainable progress in such circumstances, and it is for reasons like this that societies design affirmative actions to prevent the domination of the weak by the strong. To cite the Nigerian example, this is the only justification for the advocacy of power rotation between the north and south, otherwise, the north will have a justification to hold on to the office of President of Nigeria, permanently. “Having said this, the governor from wherever he comes must demonstrate competence for the office. My suggestion is that Oyo State needs a charter of power rotation among zones which guarantees that all parts of the state have an equitable opportunity to produce the governor and fill all-important political offices in the state.” But, to the erudite lawyer and APC governorship aspirant who is an Ibadan indigene Chief Niyi Akintola (SAN), the argument of inequality is invalid because there is no clear-cut difference among indigenes of the various towns and communities that make up Oyo State. To him, many Ibadan indigenes have their roots in Oyo and some communities in Oke-Ogun, and in towns outside Oyo State. He pointed out that Ogbomoso indigenes are as closely-knitted to Ibadan indigenes as much as Oke-Ogun and Oyo indigenes. He queried: “Who is an Ibadan man? Who is an Oyo man? We are all related. Whether you are from Ogbomoso or Igboho or Ibadan or Oyo, we have the same blood in us.”