Rail transportation, one of the legacies of the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration is being threatened by insecurity. Insecurity, which upped the profile of the railway in the country, is becoming the grave in which its achievements, in the last six years, would be entombed. Ironically, the Abuja-Kaduna corridor, President Buhari’s most-profound game-changing legacy, responsible for the soaring image of the railway, is the most affected by banditry. The legacy is not because the administration inaugurated the Abuja-Kaduna standard gauge rail line, it is that modern train construction, in accordance with the 25-year Railway Development Roadmap initiated in 2002, is being witnessed by a new generation of Nigerians, 124 years after the British colonial masters, began the Lagos-Ibadan railway construction in 1898. More striking is that, like the British, who completed the Lagos-Ibadan narrow gauge in three years, the Buhari-led administration completed a double lane standard gauge, on the same Lagos-Ibadan corridor, in four and a half years. But for the Shehu Shagari administration that started the construction of a standard gauge industrial line for the Ajaokuta Steel project in 1983, sustained rail construction stopped in Nigeria in 1964, when the Federal Government delivered on the 166km Gombe-Maiduguri line, which completed the Port Harcourt to Maiduguri, (the nation’s Eastern narrow gauge corridor), started in 1914, with the construction of the Port Harcourt-Enugu line. Nothing else painted more graphically, the gains Nigeria had made in the last four years, due to the transformation of the rail sector than the figures posted by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) in its 2021 Transportation full year report. Nigeria, according to the NBS, made N2.41 billion in revenue, while the train carried 2,890,111 passengers in 2019. According to the bureau, last year, 2,714,458 passengers travelled via train, compared to 1,020,368 passengers recorded in 2020, representing a 166.03 per cent rise. Similarly, 168,301 tonnes of goods were transported in the same year as against 87,440 recorded the previous year, showing a growth rate of 92.48 per cent. Total revenue generated from passengers in 2021 was N5.70 billion, which was 226.44 per cent higher than the N1.75 billion recorded in 2020. In the same vein, revenue generated from cargo freight in 2021 amounted to N317.57 million, which was higher by 12.87 per cent  compared to N281.35 million made in 2020. Last year, other income receipts stood at N66.80 million, higher than the N5.19 million recorded in the preceding year. Though the revenue generated is not yet comparable to that of major nations such as the United Kingdom, Canada, the United States, Europe, Japan, China and India, the increase in passenger revenue indicated that Nigeria was on its way to optimising the contribution of transportation as a major earner and change the paradigm where it contributed less than four per cent to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). But the gains may be eroded due to insecurity. Security, according to experts, was the main catalyst for the growth of the railway sub-sector since 2019, as the railway was presumed to be the safest means of commuting; and the single line Abuja-Kaduna standard gauge, inaugurated by the current administration in November 2017, became the saving grace when insecurity at the Kaduna Airport, and bandits mounted a siege on the Abuja-Kaduna expressway, killing, maiming and kidnapping. The Nigeria Railyway Corporation (NRC) became the major beneficiary, as huge demand switched to the rail, which was comfortable, affordable, accessible and safe. As indicated in the NBS report, the trend could have continued on that trajectory but for the lockdown, due to the ravaging effect of COVID-19 pandemic. However, demand picked again in 2021, and was projected to continue in that trajectory until March 28, when terrorists attacked an Abuja-Kaduna train carrying over 900 passengers and crew, leading to the drop in the popularity of the rail system as passengers are now afraid to travel by rail. While some paasengers in the attacje train were fortunate to escape, many were killed on the spot or captured. This incident created fear and anxiety in other individuals who may have been eager to try rail transportation, and it also demonstrated that rail transportation, formerly seen as a safe mode of transportation, was now unsafe.   2023: North West APC backs Tinubu-Shettima’s ticket     Banditry: Extend security forces’ retirement age,…     BREAKING: Lagos PDP Gov candidate unveils Funke Akindele as…   The March attack was the most deadly in recent history in the country. Last October, the NRC suspended operations on the same route for the first time for the same reason, when the train was attacked. Despite the Federal Government’s efforts at rescuing the kidnapped passengers, the unfortunate victims had spent 100 days in the abductors’ den. The reality, however, is that every day the abductees spend with their abductors worsen the market for the NRC, as it would result in further drop in passenger and cargo traffic. Though the use of railroads appears beneficial for passenger traffic, it is more so for cargo which distribution it enhances. Also, it reduces traffic congestion on the roads because of the sheer volume of passengers and cargoes the train could carry at once. last weekend, painted a grim picture of the impact of the attack on the corporation’s business. According to him, passenger traffic, which had been picking on the other two major lines Lagos-Ibadan, and Itakpe-Warri, suddenly, nosedived; as passengers, afraid of such attacks, dumped the railway. According to Arisa, for the Western Corridor, the NRC has been forced to reduce passenger trains as a result of the sharp drop in passenger demand. The insecurity was further compounded by a sharp increase in running cost occasioned by a rise in the price of diesel (Automotive Gas Oil), now selling at N850/litre. The Lagos-Ibadan which enjoyed four trips per day has been slashed to two, on ordinary days, except Saturdays, which remains four return trips. Similar cut was effected on the Itakpe-Warri line, to cut down on running costs, Arisa intoned. He added; “though the south appeared safer, compared to what is being experienced in the North, yet the impact of the Abuja-Kaduna attack on our operation has remained devastating. Same insecurity, he said, has been responsible for the suspension of the Lagos-Kano passenger and cargo movement on the narrow gauge. According to him, because of the constant security breach between Niger and Kaduna, the corporation has had to suspend the usually oversubscribed Lagos-Kano train, the corporation’s western line cash cow. Invariably, the endemic insecurity rage, which has found a foothold in the rail transportation subsector, suggests that revenue growth from railway operations, particularly passenger revenue, will dip by year’s end in 2022. Arisa gave an inkling of this when he said revenue had witnessed a sharp drop in the second quarter of 2022. “Before the attack, we raked in between Three to Four Million Naira, daily in revenue on passenger trains, on the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge, but from April, we have been struggling to make One Million Naira daily on the same corridor.” In effect, not only are there huge revenue projections shortfall by year end, leaving an ugly tailspin in the country’s inability to meet its loan obligations for securing/delivering the projects. The precarious debt situation in which the nation is stuck becomes more troubling because the other legs of the project may never be actualized thus leaving the nation’s railway system in a dire strait. Undoubtedly, the festering insecurity if not decimated may put paid to the realization of the other legs of the project, which means that the Ibadan-Kano end, which was the third and final part, with a spur connecting Kaduna-Katsina and Kano (i.e Lot III), of the project may never takeoff. Already, China Exim which had earlier indicated interest to support in the delivery of the entire western Line of Lagos-Kano Standard Gauge is prevaricating on the loan to set it off. Incidentally, the final Lot fell within the North-Central and North-West zones, two zones with a very high insecurity profile. Even the Kano-Maradi rail line, proposed to connect Nigeria to its lacklocked neighbour Niger Republic, which was awarded to Mota Engil, a Portuguese firm for $1.82 billion, which the former Minister of Transportation had in February this year announced would be delivered before May 29, 2023 is yet to takeoff for same reasons. What is more, even the narrow gauge rehabilitation which was being met with Federal Ministry of Transportation’s capital project’s statutory allocation may have to be stopped as appropriate cash back up expected to come from revenues from the rail networks may be inadequate. Former Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi had flagged off the rehabilitation of the Port Harcourt-Enugu narrow gauge with some fanfare last year. With consistent drop in revenue, it may not be too long before work along that narrow gauge corridor is stopped altogether. With the Lagos-Ibadan not fully connected in line with the dream behind the 25 year rail rehabilitation and construction masterplan, the full potential of the railway to unlock the potentials of the inland dry ports, may become stillbirth. With this, the dream of ensuring that transportation gains the needed traction to become a major contributor to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). With a population of over 200 million people and a potential 300 million metric tons of goods waiting to be captured by the railway, the nation despite the gains of the past four years may witness massive reversals. A logistics expert, Patrick Adenusi wondered why the Buhari administration would be toying with destroying all the gains of the administration in the railway sub-sector by playing kid gloves with insecurity. He wondered why the government would deploy massive investments in the rail sector just for political convenience and not for the purpose of making a difference in the nation’s economy and the pattern of movements for goods and services.