The House of Representatives says the controversial Water Resources Bill would be rejected again if it still has the same contentious provisions, which made it fail to sail through before. Spokesman of the House, Benjamin Kalu, said this while addressing reporters in Abuja. The Bill, which failed to sail through in 7th and 8th as well as the current 9th Assembly was reintroduced this week and it sparked disagreements among the lawmakers. When the new bill sponsored by Hon Sada Soli was read for the first time, another lawmaker, Mark Gbillah raised a point of order, reminding the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila that the legislation had generated a lot of controversies previously and should not be brought back. But Gbajabiamila said the sponsor and chairman of water resources committees, Soli assured him that contentious issues in the former bill which bothered many had been addressed in this new one.   Row over Peter Obi’s campaign posters on Muslim prayer…     Police deploy over 13,000 officers for AU/UN, ECOWAS…     Doctors, dentists reject bill to amend University Teaching…   Kalu, addressing journalists, said if the contentious issues have been cured and the title remains the same, the Bill might pass, “but if it is a replica of what was presented and rejected I am sure that what happened before would happen again.” He said, “If that has been cured and the title remains the same, the bill might pass if the concern has been cured. But if it is a replica of what was presented and rejected I am sure that what happened before would happen again. But let us wait. In line with the rules of Mr Speaker, who says that the sponsor of the bill is allowed to circulate the lead debate and bill contents to members before it is pencilled down for second reading. “So which means the presiding officer wants members to analyze the bill and now know whether it is the same as before or a differentiated bill taking care of the issues but having the same title. I am sure that when we get to that bridge the House has the capacity to analyze and take a position on it. So there is nothing to worry about.” The proposed legislation was opposed due to some of its provisions such as those in clause 13 which provided that: “In implementing the principles under subsection (2) of this section, the institutions established under this act shall promote integrated water resources management and the coordinated management of land and water resources, surface water and ground water resources, river basins and adjacent marine and coastal environment and upstream and downstream interests.” Also section 2(1) of the bill provided that: “All surface water and groundwater, wherever it occurs, is a resource common to all people,’’ while Section 120 of the bill makes it compulsory for Nigerians to obtain a driller’s permit before sinking a borehole in their homes.”