The current Governor of Osun State, Gboyega Oyetola, should be re-elected to a second term. And he will be re-elected on Saturday, July 16, 2022. This is the wish of majority of the state’s traditional and religious leaders. It is the wish of the elite and the masses alike. It is the wish of the workers, particularly civil and public servants, as endorsed by various unions. It is the wish of artisans and okada drivers. Above all, it is the wish of the majority of voters in the state, as revealed by various opinion polls. There are several major reasons why Oyetola should be re-elected. First, by all standards of measurement and within a short time, Oyetola courageously and methodically recorded significant achievements in infrastructure, healthcare, education, welfare, and the peaceful coexistence of Osun citizens. Oyetola has constructed or completed over 2,000 kilometers of roads, including  Gbongan – Akoda road; Ikirun-Iragbiji road Osogbo- Kelebe-Iragbiji road; Idi-Odan-Anaye-Araromi road; Ada-Igbajo township road; Ede-Ara-Ejigbo road; Moro-Yakoyo-Ipetumodu-Asipa road; Akindeko-Awosuru-Alekunwodo road; Osogbo-Kelebe-Iragbiji road; Ejigbo-Ara Junction-Ede road; Ikirun-Ekoende road; Aagba road; Modakeke -Famia road. To cap it all, he started and completed Ola Iya Flyover virtually within one year. Rather than listen to market noise about industrialisation or adopt a diffuse focus on several industrial projects at the same time, Oyetola focused on gold mining, which led to the state’s partnership with a Canadian listed gold developer. In no time, the first and only large-scale commercial gold mine in the country was established and production has begun. In due course, the mine will become a major employment generator for youths and wealth creator for gold entrepreneurs. Oyetola’s achievements in the Health sector are even more remarkable. He constructed or renovated and also equipped 332 Primary Health Centres, one in each ward in the state, thereby bringing healthcare closer to the people. At the same time, he improved significantly on the state’s major referral hospital, the State Specialist Hospital in Asubiaro, Osogbo. What he accomplished in this Hospital is beyond ordinary: In addition to a 120-bed ward, he constructed a new Children’s Ward; a Surgical Ward;  a Trauma Centre, a Blood Bank Building; and 30 units of Doctors’ Quarters. He also paid special attention to the health of public and civil servants, by renovating the Government House and the State Secretariat Staff Clinics. On top of it all, he established the Osun Health Insurance Scheme to which subscription has been growing steadily. The regular payment of workers’ salaries and pensions deserves special mention. Ordinarily, the regular payment of workers’ entitlements should not be regarded as an achievement as such. However, in the special circumstances that federal and state governments have found themselves, in which the majority of state governments owe arrears of salaries and pensions, Oyetola’s achievements are spectacular in this regard, more so when the three financial deficits he inherited are duly considered, namely, (a) arrears of salaries and pensions; (b) debt servicing on loans for capital projects; and (c) dwindling federal allocations and stunted Internally General Revenue for the first two years of his administration.   Police arrest fleeing Kuje prison inmate in Ogun     IGP bans spy number plates nationwide     One injured, families escape death as building collapses in…   The two-year delay in the effective take-off of his administration is another major factor to consider in assessing Oyetola’s achievements. It will be recalled that the administration was virtually in limbo for the first six months as it faced election litigation that went all the way to the Supreme Court. To complicate matters, COVID-19 hit just as the administration was taking off, thereby putting everything on hold for another 18 months. Within this period, the #EndSARS protest took place with devastating destruction of various private and public facilities, including the Governor’s vehicle. Effectively, then, the above achievements occurred within a short span of less than two years. The critical question, which has not been fully covered in previous assessments, is how Oyetola has been able to accomplish so much in so little time. Three key factors are working in his favour—his personality; the template of his governance model; and his knowledge of finance and the financial world. Oyetola is a calm, cool-headed, and reflective personality, who listens attentively to suggestions and alternative viewpoints. He also developed a governance template anchored on inclusive and participatory governance. I participated in the development of this template, which led him to seek the people’s input at every turn and take their demands as the starting point of participatory democracy. Thus, at the beginning of his administration, he sought public opinion through Town Hall meetings and a Citizens Needs Assessment, conducted by the UK’s Department for International Development (DFID) recently replaced by the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO). While participatory democracy is key to progressive governance, it could lead to conflict between two successive administrations, particularly when the electorate demands a change in policies they didn’t like during the preceding administration. That was the case with the changes that Oyetola made to the education policies established by his immediate predecessor. Although abundant evidence exists that the changes were in response to the people’s demands, no argument could convince his predecessor that they were not premeditated (for details, see Continuity and change in Osun’s education policies, The Nation, March 11, 2020 and Premium Times of the same date). A third factor underlying Oyetola’s achievements is his superb understanding of financial management. He brought into governance his years of experience as an Insurance guru and boardroom expert. Of the numerous Governors I have worked closely with, none has as much understanding of the financial world as he does. His financial background allowed him to develop an alternative financing model, which attracts only contractors who would do the job within a limited time but take agreed staggered payments over a specified but short period of time. This is a smart alternative answer to borrowing from financial institutions with prohibitive interest rates and long-term payment burden. Despite the hue and cry about insecurity, Osun state remains arguably the most peaceful state in the nation. It is not by accident. Oyetola quickly built on the amity established by the preceding administration between the Fulani community and their herders, on the one hand, and farmers and villagers, on the other hand. He was among the first to embrace and set up Amotekun in the Southwest and its officers’ activities with police enforcement. He equipped both the police and Amotekun and got them to nab bank robbers, cultists and Yahoo Boys in the state, while keeping kidnappers away. As affirmed by the APC big rally in Osogbo yesterday, there is no alternative to re-electing Oyetola, if Osun is to remain peaceful, progressive, and a safe haven for citizens and investors alike.