The Hajj is an annual Islamic pilgrimage to Mecca, Saudi Arabia, the holiest city for Muslims which takes place in the last month of the Islamic calendar year. It is a mandatory religious duty for Muslims that must be carried out at least once in their lifetime by all adult Muslims who are physically and financially capable of undertaking the journey, and of supporting their family during their absence from home. The National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) on July 6 said it had conveyed 29,128 pilgrims and 920 officials in 73 flights into the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) for the 2022 Hajj.    Among those who performed the 2022 Hajj, which began on July 7-12, are the following movie stars:    Femi Adebayo  Femi Adebayo who is has become a reckoning force in the Yoruba movie scene following the release of his movie “King of Thieves” (AGESINKOLE) is one of the pilgrims for this year’s Hajj. Adebayo in an Instagram post shared a video which captured him in Arafat, Makkah Saudi Arabia where he was seen performing his Hajji rites. The movie star also used the opportunity to pray for the upliftment of his fans while wishing them a happy Jumat Mubarak. “As we ascend mount Arafat today, I join your faith with prayers that Allah uplifts you in Blessings and Joy. Jumat Mubarak my people”, he wrote.   Mustapha Sholagbade  Mustapha Sholagabade also made the list of the actors who travelled to Saudi Arabia to perform this year’s Hajj. Sholagbade took to his social media page to share photos of where he’s seen kissing the black stone as he performed his hajj rites     Depression notifies me when to switch my style – Rema     I’m inspired by Burna Boy’s tenancity – Blaqbonez     Yul Edochie calls out Ahmed Musa over post   Rukayat Lawal  The popular comic actress “Iyaibadan” via her Instagram page also shared photos in the holiness while highlighting the importance of fasting on the day of Arafat. “Fasting Today! Is Highly Rewarding… It’s not a Friday Fasting… It is the day of *ARAFAT*. “Please do not miss the Opportunity To Have Two Years Sins Forgiven… May Almighty ALLAH Rewards Us Abundantly As We Share this Information. “May ALLAH accept it as an act of Ibaadah Amen…Happy Eid-El-Kabir in Advance”, she captioned the post.   Adekola Tijani  Comic actor, Adekola Tijani who is popularly known as “Kamilu Kompo” also took to his page on the photo and video sharing app, to share photos of himself in Saudi Arabia. He urged his fans to pray and fast just like his colleague Lawal had noted, stressing it is a means of having their sins forgiven by the Almighty God.   Doyin Kukoyi  The popular television host, actress, and brand ambassador, Doyin Kukoyi also took part in the 2022 Hajj seeing she shared several videos of herself in the holy city of Mecca. She expressed gratitude to Allah her Hajj wish at the 11th hour. “Alhamdulilahi. Allah came through at the last minute and granted me my most desired wish. May He be praised,” Kukoyi wrote.