The zonal representative of the Nigeria Golf Federation (NGF), Onwuegbu Bose Ngozi has attested to the rich golf tradition of the prestigious Ibadan Golf Club (IGC), describing their golf course and the welfare package extended to her in Ibadan as topnotch. Onwuegbu who was in Ibadan during the recently held Captain’s inaugural tournament to perform oversight function as the South/West zonal representative of the NGF disclosed this while addressing newsmen after the event, saying she came to support the Ibadan golf club and event. “I’m very satisfied with all I have seen here because IGC is a friendly golf club, if you come here once, you will always want to come back again, they’re friendly, they’re nice people with a fantastic golf course that you will want to play and play again”, said Onwuegbu. The Lady Captain of Dolphin Golf Club who also emerged runner-up best net in the guest ladies category with the scores of 106 gross over 78net during the golf tourney also promised to do her best in ensuring and encouraging more ladies’ participation in the game of golf at the South/West Nigeria. “I have been doing my best in creating more awareness for the game among ladies since coming into office as a zonal representative on the NGF board and I will not rest on my oars until my set out goals are achieved”, said the widely traveled golfer. She however described golf as a great game where she derived much joy and gladness socializing with the elite; people of good culture and intellectuals, and playing walking around the big golf course, burning the calories are enough for her wellness. Sports minister hails Nestle’s support for basketball development The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare has lauded the management of Nestle Nigeria Plc for their unflinching support of basketball development with their commitment to the annual Milo Secondary School Basketball Championships.   Sports Festival to be expanded soon, says Dare     NPFL: Fierce battle against relegation     World Cup stadiums to be alcohol-free   For 24 years, the tournament has been staged with some of its products forming the bulk of the national teams. The minister who spoke at the grand finale of the 22nd edition of the tournament described the event as a veritable platform for discovering, nurturing, and developing budding talents. Dare, who was represented by the Director-General of the National Institute for Sports (NIS), Professor Olawale Moronkola said, “I wish to commend the commitment, passion, and financial support of Nestlé to the growth of basketball in the country. It is heartwarming to note that this platform has become a gathering for discovering, nurturing, and developing so many budding talents in our dear country.” He, however, congratulated all the participants and promised the federal government’s support to companies that invest in support sports development. In her remarks, the President of the Nigeria Schools’ Sports Federation (NSSF), Olabisi Joseph, said, “Nestle Nigeria PLC has made a significant contribution to the growth of sports in Nigeria and the creation of a bright future for young people by supporting and promoting basketball in schools. The championship has served as a platform for showcasing and harnessing the great potential of young Nigerian students and integrating them into the mainstream of basketball.” This year’s edition was won by teams from Bayelsa with Bishop Dimieari Grammar School, Obom claiming the boys’ title while their counterpart from St. Jude’s Secondary Schools Amarata won the girls’ title. The Milo Basketball Championship which started with less than 500 schools in 1999, now brings together over 10,000 schools every year, with a record registration of 10, 354 schools in the 22nd edition.