The United States Ambassador, Mary Beth Leonard has called on Nigerians to shun vote-buying and violence during next year’s general elections. The envoy who spoke to reporters in Lagos ahead of her country’s 246 independence anniversary said global attention would be focused on Nigeria, Africa’s largest democracy, as the country goes to the polls next year. Her words: “As the United States celebrates 246 years of independence this year, we take time to recognise the key pillars of democracy.  Our thoughts turn to freedom of expression and respect for human rights, the rule of law, and the role of all citizens in determining the country’s future. “In the lead-up to the election season, we are reminded of the importance of robust debate, freedom of expression, and space for the many diverse voices in Nigeria to be heard.  Your voice and your actions matter.  Reject vote-buying and violence.  Ask candidates questions about the issues you care about.  Vote!” The ambassador said Nigerians and Americans share some similarities and that the partnership between the two countries is anchored on cultural and commercial relationships, as well as in people-to-people relationships.   I’ll not let you down, Adeleke tells Timi of Ede     Lagos steps down new abortion guidelines     Kuje attack: Senate shocked by no CCTV, porous security   She added: “After nearly three years as the U.S. Ambassador to Nigeria, I am struck by how similar Nigeria and the United States are, as nations that seek to embrace diversity, build unity, and recommit to strengthening democracy. That shared commitment produces a bond between our countries that goes beyond governments. It is equally anchored in cultural and commercial relationships, as well as in people-to-people partnerships. “The United States continues to strive to strengthen our own imperfect union.  We also seek to support Nigeria on its path toward a more equitable future for all its citizens. We partner with Nigeria to strengthen health services, support educational institutions, boost agricultural production, provide security training and military equipment, as well as encourage entrepreneurship and private sector engagements!” Ambassador Leonard also welcomed the visiting Morehouse College Glee Club which is in Nigeria to celebrate the 50th anniversary of its performance in the country in 1972. She said black colleges and universities like Morehouse College are a pillar of strength that was born from America’s painful struggles for equality.  She added: “The Glee Club will be performing Nigerian and American music on a tour of Nigeria, and reach out to Nigerian youth and musicians. “Black colleges and universities have a long history of educating African American teachers and professionals, as well as international students.  Influenced by the American civil rights movement, President Nnamdi Azikiwe, President Kwame Nkrumah, and other African leaders played critical roles in Africa’s independence movement. These institutions have helped shape leaders in the United States, and across the world.  For example, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. graduated from Morehouse College in 1948.  Notably, Nigeria’s first president Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe graduated from Lincoln University in 1930 and encouraged Ghana’s first President Kwame Nkrumah to study there as well. For Americans, celebrating Independence Day usually means reminiscing about our past and reflecting on what unites us – our principles, our history, and our shared humanity. As we lift up our voices and sing with the Morehouse College Glee Club this week, we celebrate a vision for our future defined by diversity, equality, partnership, and hope.”