No fewer than 200 bandits on motorcycles wielding sophisticated weapons have attacked Damari town of Kazage Ward in the Eastern Part of Birnin-Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State.  The attack was however reported to have been repelled by members of the Ansaru terrorists group.  Birnin-Gwari Emirate Progressive Union (BEPU) confirmed the development in a statement on Friday evening.  It said: “The attack took place around 5:00pm on Wednesday 13th July 2022 while Ansaru members were right inside the town preaching to locals.” A statement by BEPU chairman, Ishaq Usman Kasai said: “On hearing the sporadic gunshots from the bandits, the Ansaru members moved towards them and started exchanging fire. They clashed for about an hour. The Ansaru members who were also heavily armed overpowered the bandits which made them to retreat and run away. “During the clash, some damages were made to the town; one shop was burnt, two vehicles were burnt, one private hospital was burnt, two locals (labourers) were also killed by the armed bandits on their way from farm while the bandits were running away to forest.   Osun: fear grips PDP camp     Anxiety as INEC closes nomination for presidential, NASS…     Osun 2022: PRP candidate lampoons executives over withdrawal…   “The private hospital was burnt accidentally as a result of the fire spread from the second vehicle burnt nearby. “As a result of this, most of the community members appreciate and hail the Ansaru members for defending the town from the bandits attack without which they believe that the situation could have been more damaging. “Hundreds of persons, including women and children migrated from the town as a result of the attack. “The attack was a very organised one because the armed bandits knew that the Ansaru members are covering the town. Hence, it was countered by the Ansaru members.” It however said the casualty figure between the armed bandits and the Ansaru members was not confirmed. BEPU also reiterated the Ansaru members have continued to preach and administer Shari’a justice to locals, advising them to acquire arms to defend themselves against enemies and fight government to establish what they refer to as Islamic State.