The Court of Appeal has urged donor agencies and institutions, including the National Democratic Institute (NDI) and the International Republican Institute (IRI) to assist the country in conducting safe and credible elections next year. The court’s President, Justice Monica Dongban-Mensem, said: “Indeed, the cooperation and collaboration of donor agencies and institutions such as yours, with rich knowledge and experience of electoral processes, will be greatly required in the areas of training and other forms of partnership so as to ensure the conduct of not just a free and fair election, but also safe and secure election in Nigeria come 2023.   Justice Dongban-Mensem spoke while receiving a joint pre-election assessment mission of NDI and IRI in Abuja. Represented by the Presiding Justice of the Court of Appeal, Abuja division, Justice Haruna Tsammani, the President of the Court of Appeal (PCA) said courts and tribunals have so far, done well in handling election disputes. She said: “You will agree with me that the courts and election tribunals have exhibited great level of transparency in the conduct of electoral disputes in order to foster confidence in the judicial system. “Our doors are open to accept advise, encouragement and if need be, constructive engagement with us in carrying out our onerous judicial functions.” The PCA noted that it was the outcome of the findings of agencies line the NDI and IRI that usually form the basis for the constant review and adjustments in the Electoral Act and, ultimately determine the basis of Nigeria’s preparedness for every election. She expressed optimism that with the Ekiti and Osun state gubernatorial elections that have recently been concluded, the changes introduced in the electoral system will serve as test cases in future election disputes.   UPDATED: Buhari seeks Justice Ariwoola’s confirmation…     Interstate transporters begin 25 percent fare increase Aug…     Ban would lead to more terror attacks – Miners   Justice Dongban-Mensem said the Court of Appeal has constituted Election Petition Tribunals in Ekiti and Osun states to entertain any petition that may arise from the recent gubernatorial elections in the states She noted that the court plays a vital role in both pre and post-election processes, which informed why, and the PCA, she consults with Heads of Courts at the state level, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in appointing judicial officers with requisite competence and integrity to serve as tribunal judges. The pre-election assessment mission, led by Secretary of State for Ohio (USA), Frank LaRose explained that the visit was to assess the political landscape, leading up to the next presidential election, and promised to assist in ensuring peaceful and credible polls in the country. It was learnt that, as part of its assessment of the nation’s preparation for the 2023 elections, the delegation was in Osun State to observe and learn from the July 16 off-cycle gubernatorial election which is the second time an election was being conducted under the new Electoral Act. Secretary LaRose currently serves as the Chief Elections Officer for the state of Ohio where he oversees electoral proceedings. Before now, Secretary LaRose served two terms in the State Senate, where he spearheaded efforts to increase government transparency and efficiency in the areas of elections administration and regulatory reform.