Presidential candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the 2023 election Prince Adewole Adebayo has said for Nigeria to be free of stunted growth, the people must vote corrupt people out of office. This, he believes, will help the country achieve greatness. Adebayo was guest of the Voice of America (VOA) U.S.A, on the invitation of the U.S Commission for International. He said: “If you want to kick poverty and insecurity, you will need to kick corruption, and the only way you can kick corruption is to kick corrupt people out of office.   Coalition promises to ensure victory for Oyetola     I’ll not let you down, Adeleke tells Timi of Ede     Four injured as PDP, APC supporters clash in Ede   “Nigeria is synonymous with many good things. It’s the government that is synonymous with corruption, and they have not been able to change because they have not changed. When you change the administration, you just recycle the same people; they will not change their behaviour. And the only way to ensure things are different is to vote the corrupt people out of office. That’s what we will do in 2023”, he said. When asked if he was ever part of the government he is canvassing to vote out now, Adebayo said his records are open to the public to know if, adding that he ‘is part of the young and fresh Nigerians who are fed up with the status quo and wants the narrative changed’. He added: “In all these years we have not partaken in the corruption of the government, we have not joined them, we have never supported them, we have not been their bag carrier. Many of the people succeeding them today have always been part of the system. We are completely different and we are from the people. Nigerians know that. “We know that the problems of Nigerians are man-made problems. Ordinarily, as it was designed by nature, Nigeria should not have problems because every resource you need to develop yourself is there, human capital is also there. Everything you need to succeed is readily available. But with all these opportunities, it is unfortunate that the only malice facing the country is bad governance. People know that is why we are running for office. There is nothing wrong with the system from the point of view of those who are in the system. It is only people like me outside the system who know that something is wrong. “The whole world can see something is wrong with the country, but they can’t see that, what they see is politics of doubling your money. You come into the government, you support someone to come into the government and you continue to loot the country the more. Now the young people, the outsiders and third force are coming together to push a new narrative so as to push an ordinary person into government so that we can then work within to throw out the system, if you don’t, give it a 1,000 years, nothing is going to change.”