Oyo State Chief Judge, Munta Abimbola yesterday swore in Bayo Lawal as the new deputy governor. Until the swearing-in, Lawal was the chairman, Oyo State Housing Corporation. He was also recently announced as the running mate of Governor Seyi Makinde for the 2023 governorship election. The swearing-in and oath of office taking was held at the Executive Chamber of the Governor’s Office, Agodi Secretariat, Ibadan. The event followed the removal from office of the former deputy governor, Rauf Olaniyan, after the members of the House of Assembly adopted the report of the seven- man panel set up by the chief judge to investigate Olaniyan. The panel, in the report, said Olaniyan was guilty of the allegations levelled against him, which included gross misconduct, insubordination, financial recklessness, abandonment of duties, among others. Although, copies of the report were yet to be made public at press time, a source said some high points of the report that indicted Olaniyan had it that “a witness (PW2) named AbdulJelil Adekunle Kareem confirmed to have written a letter/petition dated 31st January, 2022 to the OYHA vide the Honourable Speaker and the petition was admitted and tendered as exhibit P3, which detailed his complaints against the Deputy Governor. “He confirmed that his company AYOD Nigeria Ltd. secured a contract with Oyo State Government, but the respondent (deputy governor) has been on his neck on the contract sum, not allowing him to execute the contract, but forcing and coercing him to divert the contract sum to his private pocket. “The witness confirmed payment of cash of N2,750,000,00 and N3,500,00,00 and another N4,000,000,00 to the deputy governor’s brother (one Mutaliu) on his instruction. He again informed the panel of the deputy governor’s intimidation, blackmail and harassment consequent upon his refusal to further part and agree to the diversion of the contract sum awarded to his company AYOD Nigeria Ltd. to the private pocket of the deputy governor. “The same PW2 further informed the panel that the contract for the construction of the deputy governor’s lodge could not be duly executed consequent upon his insistence to personally collect the sum of N40,000,000,00 meant for the purchase of furniture for his lodge into his private pocket. The witness said this caused the non-completion and execution of the contract. “He also informed the panel of other harassment, threat to his life and instigation of his detention by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) at the instance of the deputy governor. “PW3 Samuel Adegboyega Badejo, the Director General Protocol to the Executive Governor of Oyo State, who tendered exhibits P4, P5, P6A, P6B, P6C, P6D, P6E, P6F, P6G, P6H, P7A, P7B, P7C and P7D confirming messages forwarded to the Deputy Governor to attend events, occasions and state functions on the instructions of the Governor, but he refused and this amounted to insubordination. “The PW1 was the Clerk of the Oyo State House of Assembly, Mrs. Yetunde Oludara Awe, who came to testify to the petition signed by 23 members of the assembly on allegations of financial recklessness and abuse of office among others. “There was no cross examination of the witnesses, as the deputy governor did not attend the panel sitting or send a counsel.” The swearing-in was attended by top government functionaries, Speaker Adebo Ogundoyin, who led other principal officers of the assembly, service commanders, party chieftains, among others. In a brief remark at the event, Makinde said Lawal was chosen as a result of the successes he achieved in the capacity he had served under the current administration. He said to his administration, the reward for hard work was more work, noting that the position of the deputy governor was that of trust. He announced some capacities and ministries that would be under the watch of the new deputy governor. Makinde said: “Against social media reports, our new deputy governor is not 76 years old as erroneously reported. Your new position is an evidence that you excelled in your previous position. “The reward for hard work is more work. This is why we are giving you more task.   UPDATED: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd     Ondo lawmaker, farmers protest alleged forceful farmland…     BREAKING: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd   “The position of the deputy governor is a position of trust and our masters are the people of the state. “Let me encourage you to put the interest of the good people of Oyo State first. “You will continue to supervise the Housing Corporation even from your position as the Deputy Governor. Oyo State Road Maintenance Agency will also be under your direct supervision. The Ministry of Justice will also be under your directive, having served as the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice of the state in the past.” Speaking with reporters after the swearing-in, Lawal said the new task would be delivered with full trust and loyalty to the government of Oyo State. He thanked the governor for finding him worthy of the task, assuring him that he would use all within his disposal to complement and ensure more service delivery to the people of the state in line with the visions of the Makinde administration. The state woke up to a surprise yesterday morning when the lawmakers, during the plenary, presented the report of the panel for consideration. It could not be confirmed when the report was submitted to the assembly. The panel, which was set up on July 14, started and finished its work in five days out of the three months maximum lifespan given the members. Heavy security presence was observed at the House of Assembly complex, with many security patrol vans stationed at the entrance and strategic locations around the complex. No fewer than 23 lawmakers of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) attended the plenary. The eight lawmakers on the platform of the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) boycotted the plenary. It was gathered that the panel began its sitting immediately it was inaugurated last Thursday and sat all through the weekend. The deputy governor cried out last Friday that he received an invitation to appear before the panel about 15 minutes to the time of the sitting. A source hinted that the panel, against the announced House of Chiefs where it said it would sit, held the sitting in a private facility within the House of Assembly complex. The lawmakers, after announcing the removal of Olaniyan, went on a short recess indicating, however, that the office could not be left vacant. Reconvening about 30 minutes later, the house presented a nomination letter from the governor communicating the name of Lawal as a replacement for Olaniyan. Lawal, 68, was a commissioner for Justice and Attorney General of the State under the administration of the late ex-Governor Lamidi Adeshina between 1999 and 2003. Members of the party and loyalist of the deputy governor stormed the Governor’s Office in celebration of the new appointment.