Choice Dental, a digital dental clinic with state-of-the-art facilities, has opened at GRA Ikeja, Lagos, with services focusing on preventive dental care. “Our preventive dentistry includes comprehensive dental examination, digital X-rays, sealant, oral cancer screening, dental cleaning,” said Managing Dentist, Choice Dental, Dr. Sade Akiode, at the opening recently. Dr. Akiode, who had over 20 years successful dental practice in Los Angeles, California, United States, said she decided to come back to Nigeria in 2011 because of two reasons: to avail Nigerians the same world-class dental care that her patients in the United States are enjoying and reduce the incidence of Nigerians travelling abroad for medical tourism.   Daily-Need donates medical equipment to LUTH, LASUTH     AHMSG lauds Richen, seeks more collaborations     Why LASUTH is helping Nigeria address shortage of…   “We have since set up a thriving dental clinic at Karimu Kotun, Victoria Island (VI), Lagos with Ikeja branch being our second in Lagos and Nigeria,” said Akiode. Choice Dental, Ikeja has nine operating suites, which comprise the general section, VIP and children’s sections. Operated by well-trained dentists, radiographers and other ancillary staff, Choice Dental offers a wide range of other services in addition to preventive dentistry. These are cosmetic dentistry, which includes teeth whitening, splinting, smile makeover; general dentistry such as white  fillings, root canal therapy, dentures, extractions, children’s dentistry, dental Implants, among others. Dr. Akiode said Choice Dental also offered specialised services such as full mouth reconstruction, oral surgery, laser surgery, orthodontics, Invalign in the Ikeja facility. She decried  the global and local attention on such diseases like malaria, HIV AIDS, COVID-19 to the neglect of dental disease conditions which she said can lead to other ailments such as erectile dysfunction, cardiovascular diseases and even death in some cases. Dr. Ernest Ndukwe, chairman of the Board of Choice Dental, called for attitudinal change among Nigerians by going for regular dental checkup instead of waiting until they have toothache or pain in the mouth before going to see a dentist. Dr. Ndukwe said Choice Dental was well positioned to serve residents of Lagos Mainland and its environs.