United States has reaffirmed its commitment to supporting programmes that provide youths with access to Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education. Deputy Public Affairs Officer at U.S. Consulate General in Lagos Jennifer Foltz spoke at the opening of a training for CodeSchool Africa and CodeHub Africa in Ibadan, Oyo State. He hailed the founder, Damilola Oluwatunmise, for officially opening CodeSchool Africa and CodeHub Africa “where young people can learn digital technology skills.” “I am really proud of Damilola and must commend her for doing this here. “After the investment of the U.S Consulate through the AWE programme, she could have been charging a lot of money to teach these skills but she decided to give back in her way and I must commend her for that. “The high point for me today has been hearing from the students about how these skills they have picked up here have impacted them, and I look forward to hearing more success stories from these students carrying out such a noble project,” she said. Oluwatunmise said the need to make digital skills as affordable as possible in Ibadan motivated her to launch the physical digital learning hub.   Another Nigerian gets First Class in Maths at Oxford     Tinubu on Shettima: I’ve made hard, best choice     Monarch makes case for youths in sports   The Academy for Women Entrepreneurs (AWE) alumnus said having a physical code hub in Ibadan was a vision that she had always nursed. “Seeing it come to fruition was a testament to the fact that with faith, perseverance, and hard work, you can achieve your dreams. “We initially kicked off teaching online but the truth is we quickly realised that while that was great, a physical learning hub was not only better but necessary as it made learning easier for most people. “This realisation was what eventually led to this moment,” she noted. She referenced AWE programme sponsored by the U.S Consulate General, Lagos, for the impacts that came in handy while coming up with the facility. “I was a part of AWE in 2021 and the skills and training I received from the academy prepared me for this journey.” A former student testified learning several digital skills through CodeSchool Africa enabled her to secure a remote job as a data analyst with a tech company in Florida. YALI/MWF Co-ordinator Austin Emeanua and Dr. Yemisi Adeyeye,  president of the AWE Alumni Association and founder of Lifefount Hospital was also present at the event.