World’s richest man Elon Musk has argued the earth is under populated, which is why he is giving birth to more children. Ppular actor Nick Cannon agrees with the business mogul. The Tesla CEO tweeted this after news of his secret affair with one of his executives produced a set of twins broke recently. According to reports, Musk and Shivon Zilis welcomed twins last November and somehow kept it off the media until recently. On May 42, Musk tweeted about the falling birth rate in the US. According to him: “USA birth rate has been below min sustainable levels for ~50 years. (The) past two years have been a demographic disaster.” Though he received knocks for sleeping with his employee, Musk insisted he was doing his bit to help the world’s underpopulation, adding a decline in birth rate is the largest danger threatening civilisation.   Sekinat’s Idamu Adugbo makes waves     Teddy A: BBNaija not for you if…     Why I’m not involved in politics, by Burna Boy   “Doing my best to help the underpopulation crisis. A collapsing birth rate is the biggest danger civilization faces by far. “Mark my words, they are sadly true,” he tweeted. Reacting to his assertion, a fan Pranay Pathole asked: “Elon, what do you think is the major driving factor for this population collapse trend? Do you think that recessions play a role in this inverted population graph? Or is it just the mentality of literate people thinking that why bring babies in this already “overpopulated” world? Responding, Musk said: “Far too many people are under the illusion that Earth is overpopulated, even though birth rate trends are so obviously headed to population collapse.” Corroborating Musk’s assertion and his mechanism to addressing the situation, Nick Cannon chimed in, “Right there with you my Brother!” The founder of SpaceX and Tesla, Elon Musk is the father of nine children and one, a son Nevada Alexander, who passed away at 10 weeks from Sudden Infant Death Syndrome in 2002. While Nick Cannon has welcomed seven children as a father, but in late 2021, his youngest son, Zen, passed away. However, he’s reportedly expecting baby number eight with model, Bre Tiesi.