It was all praise from President Muhammadu Buhari to  All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholders yesterday  for what he called putting the interest and unity of the party above their personal ambitions. Reviewing the conduct of the June presidential primary of the party at a meeting with APC stakeholders in Abuja, Buhari said he was particularly happy at the cohesion and unity that characterised the party’s national convention and the presidential primary. He recalled the events that produced Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as flag bearer and Senator Kashim Shettima as vice presidential candidate, saying the unity, security and prosperity of the country would matter most to him, beyond his days in office as President. The president’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, quoted him in a statement as thanking the National Chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, for “the kind words on my role in processes leading to the emergence of our candidate and his running mate for the Presidential election in February next year.” He added: “You were all of one mind, wanting the best for the party, with the candidate emerging in a free and fair manner. “For us all, the cohesion and unity of the party was the first priority, and ambition was second. I am glad that you all saw the larger picture rather than narrow, self-serving interests,” he said. President Buhari recalled that when the presidential running mate, Senator Kashim Shettima, was presented to him a couple of days ago, he had said he would reserve his comments till the handover ceremony on May 29, 2023, at the Eagle Square. “I still maintain that same position,” the President said, lauding party members for acknowledging the many virtues that qualify the vice presidential candidate for the noble position. The President expressed confidence that Shettima would not disappoint the party and Nigerians at large. He also commended the party for resolving to further mobilise more Nigerians, particularly youths, to register and get their permanent voter cards (PVCs), saying ”it is the way to go.” The National Chairman of the party, the Chairman, the Progressives Governors Forum and Governor of Kebbi State, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu and Shettima, in separate remarks, expressed gratitude to the President for his exemplary leadership which they said has strengthened the party in the aftermath of the convention and primaries. Adamu said: “Our main goal is to see the success of the APC in the forthcoming general elections. There’s no better parting gift than to ensure that the APC produces the next President.” Bagudu told the President that he had set a worthy precedence on internal democracy in political parties, saying: “Under pressure to dictate or suggest, you were determined that the democratic process should be given the opportunity to work and what we have seen is that democratic processes can produce very excellent results. “We have a presidential candidate and a running mate whom we are all proud of,” he said. The Kebbi governor attributed the gradual return of normalcy to the Northeastern part of the country to the spirited interventions approved by the President, acknowledging the rise in agricultural activities and food production in Borno, Adamawa and Yobe states. The Vice Presidential candidate reiterated the willingness of the APC Presidential Candidate, Asiwaju Tinubu, and himself to serve Nigeria with justice, equity and fairness. “We want to solicit the support of the President once INEC lifts the ban on open-air campaigns and we want to latch on to your achievements and brand name to victory, and consolidate the leadership of the party,” he said.   Fresh trouble for Tambuwal, Bala, others as court axes Umahi     Abubakar Aliyu and the never-ending power grid collapse     Victoria Oluboyo: Nigeria’s pride in Parma   Others stakeholders in the delegation included the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan; Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege; Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase, and most of the governors on the party’s platform. Governor Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi), who is the Chairman of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), led other governors, including those of Borno, Babagana Zulum; Gombe, Inuwa Yahaya; Yobe, Mai Mala Buni; and Nasarawa, Abdullahi Sule. The stakeholders were mainly from the North East who had gone to thank the president for Shettima’s emergence as vice presidential candidate. They were joined by some governors and top party shots, who were in Abuja at the time of the visit for solidarity. Tinubu was not scheduled to be part of the delegation. Elections in Anambra, Ekiti, Osun proof of my irreversible commitment to credible polls – Buhari Receiving another delegation from Nasarawa State, Buhari declared that the off-season elections in Anambra, Ekiti and Osun states have confirmed his administration’s irreversible commitment to credible and violence-free polls in the country. He urged the electorate to vote the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the next general elections to ensure continuity in the polity, and stability in the country and West African region. The President told the high-powered delegation led by Governor Abdullahi Sule that the Electoral Act, signed by him earlier this year, was an attestation of the fulfillment of the administration’s determination and commitment to the tenets of the rule of law. He said: “I have always reassured my listeners both at home and abroad my personal desire and indeed the priority of this administration is to bequeath to our nation an irreversible political process that continues to be both democratic and acceptable to the people. ”My desire for our nation is that the 2023 elections should clearly mark the commencement of the institutional strength of our electoral body in conducting acceptable, credible and violence-free elections. ”The forthcoming general elections will provide us with the opportunity to convince the electorate on the need for continuity to enable our party to consolidate on our achievements in the last seven years. ”The Government and people of Nasarawa State, as usual, have a great role to play in returning our party to governance in the 2023 elections in order to create a path for greater socio- economic growth and development. “This is not only important for Nigeria alone but also for the West African Sub-Region,” Buhari said. According to the president, Nasarawa remains very dear to his heart, describing the state as the symbol of hope and determination in collective efforts to entrench democracy in Nigeria. He recalled that in 2011, the state stood out during the general elections of that year as the one state that compensated the political efforts in the then Congress for Progressive Change, defying rigging and ensuring that their voices mattered. “To demonstrate this admiration and appreciation to the people of Nasarawa State, I personally attended the inauguration of Governor Tanko Al-Makura on May 29, 2011. In 2015 and 2019, the state remained one of the strongholds of our great party, the APC. ”I am optimistic that the people of the State, the APC Government and this broad representation of your delegation will not disappoint me, as we sustain concerted efforts in pushing forward the frontiers of good governance in our country,” he said. Buhari also used the occasion to stress the need for partnerships among the three tiers of government in order to deliver good governance, infrastructure and critical services needed by the people.