A former Plateau governorship aspirant Sarpiya Danyaro Dakon, has expressed confidence in the competence of the All-Progressive Congress (APC) presidential aspirant, Bola Ahmed Tinubu to transform Nigeria in eight years. He spoke with newsmen in Abuja during the launch of a Tinubu/Shettima School to School (TSSTS) Campaign Organisation. Dakon explained that the track record of Tinubu during his tenure as Lagos state governor gives a glimpse to what he will achieve if elected as president. He said: “Those who know Tinubu are aware of his pedigree, he is somebody that we know can turn Nigeria around for the better. You heard the way he turned Lagos around into an independent state when he was governor. “Before his tenure, Lagos internally generated revenue of just about N600m When he was leaving office after 8 years, he turned it into N86 billion. He can also do 5 times of what he did in Lagos on a federal level. “You can only imagine where Nigeria will be at the end of his tenure as President. I am talking about capability. Of course, in politics, you must think of a strategy that will win the election for you and as far as I am concerned that is one of the things that our principal considered before choosing his running mate. I agree Nigeria is a very religious country, and so it is possible that some people from the Christian side might feel sad because they feel they discriminated, but it is all about winning and not religion.   ‘Vote-buying not a threat to Oyetola victory’     Olaniyan’s counsel fumes over impeachment panel     Choice of Funke Akindele unsettles Lagos APC – PDP   “I want to appeal to Nigerians to remember that it is better to get someone who is capable, can give us what we deserve and carry us along to forget the issue of religion. Because religious sentiments will take us nowhere. Asiwaju himself is a Muslim, his wife is a Christian, not just a Christian but a pastor. So that shows how liberal he is.” National Coordinator of the group, Mr. Hamza Mohammed Auta explained the TSSTS is organised to enlighten and educate students from all tertiary institutions in Nigeria on the pedigree, track record and outstanding performance of its principal. He also outlined Tinubu’s investment in education and health during his tenure as Lagos state governor, expressing confidence that the APC presidential flag bearer will transform these sectors if elected as president. “It is pertinent to state that Tinubu during his tenure as Lagos state governor, injected the sum of N1 billion for Lagos State University between 2006-2008 for infrastructure development, provided free education in all public primary and secondary schools including payment of WAEC/NECO fees as well as all internal examination fees, construction of 4 millennium secondary schools each with 39 classrooms in primary schools, provision of additional 2,500 new classrooms to the school system through the Special Committee for rehabilitation of public schools which rehabilitate 250 schools at a cost of N2.8 billion. “It is also on record that Tinubu as a Governor of Lagos State between 1999-2007 ordered that his monthly basic salary be paid to four rehabilitation centres for infrastructure development until further notice. The beneficiaries of this charity are Pacelli School 1 and 11 (Surulere), Modupe Cole children Care and Treatment House (Yaba) and the Spinal Cord Injury Association of Nigeria (Ikeja). “Jagaban free health policy for children below 18 and adults above 65 years, free eye surgery and glasses were distributed to patients for free,” he said.