The Federal Government has stated that while it is committed to achieving Universal Health Coverage (UHC) for all Nigerians, the provision of health insurance for the elderly and retirees remains a priority. Noting that one of the indicators for any civilization or nation is how well it takes care of the elders, it assured the elderly and retirees that the government is working towards the implementation of recommendations, strategies aimed at providing qualitative healthcare for them. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, made this known in Abuja at the formal presentation of the Ministerial Committee report on the provision of health insurance for retirees and elderly in Nigeria. He said: “The first step for us will be to see the report, and a committee will look through it and find out what needs to be distilled from there. There is no doubt that this is a very important document and a big step forward, not only for the elderly and the retirees, but for the whole country.   A tale of Lagos pedestrian bridges     PHOTOS: Buhari returns to Abuja after five-day state visit…     Lawan mourns death of Yobe APC Chair’s mother   “There is a saying that the mark of civilization depends on how well we care for the old and how well the strong can take care of the weak. “We must make sure that nobody is left behind – the young, old – are taken care of by those who are able. This is because those who are able today were not able when they were young and one day they will also not be able in the future.” While presenting the report, the Chairman of the Ministerial Committee, Mr. Linus Awute, said: “Our report lays emphasis on financial risk protection of the elderly. This is where the issue of funding comes in. We have researched and realise that no society can fund health care from only one source. “We are advocating for innovative multiple sources of funding. We have identified some sources that will bring about incremental funds landing under the principle of equity and justice. It is all about strong political will.”