Bayelsa Governor Douye Diri has sent a stern warning to abductors of Mike Ogiasa, a former Commissioner for Special Duties (Federal Projects) , demanding the victim’s immediate and unconditional release. Diri warned the abductors would face the wrath of the law while assuring was working assiduously to ensure Ogiasa regain his freedom. The Governor’s warning came just as a viral video released by the suspected kidnappers showed the victim crying for help inside a shallow grave with his hands and legs tied. Speaking on Tuesday during the 17th State Security Council meeting in Government House, Yenagoa, Diri, who condemned the kidnap of the former commissioner, stressed his administration had zero tolerance for crime and criminality and all those involved in the kidnap would not go scot-free. The Governor said that the people of the State and the Ijaw nation at large were known for honesty, truth and hard work and wondered why some youths allowed themselves to be used as agents of criminality. He cautioned youths against involvement in crime, stating that it is an ill-wind that blows no one any good. He urged them to seek legitimate means of making money rather that resorting to crime, stressing the government had the capacity to deal with perpetrators.   Tinubu, Lawan, APC Govs, others rally Osun for Oyetola     Man allegedly kills brother with rat poison over land…     PDP zonal treasurer resigns over ‘unjust…   Diri called on the people to support the government’s efforts to secure the state by availing relevant security agencies of necessary information as government alone could not successfully tackle insecurity. Diri said: “Let no youth be used to terrorise our brothers and sisters. Recently, a video clip of a kidnapped former commissioner has been in circulation. Unfortunately, people take pleasure in using it to give a negative connotation and image about our state. “The government is not sleeping on that matter. We are working on it and by God’s grace we believe and hope that the victim will come out alive. “Ijaw people are known for honesty, truth and hard work. No youth should be deceived into commiting crime and see it as a legitimate means of livelihood. “My administration has declared a zero tolerance for crime. So, I again advise our youths to move away from crime and criminality. The government has the capacity to deal with situations like this. “Our country is facing security challenges. These are not normal times. So, we need the support of the people. Be vigilant, cooperate with government and the security agencies by availing them of necessary information. “Mike Ogiasa must be released immediately. Security agents are working on it and I am sure in the end we will triumph.”