It is doubtful if there is anything made by man that is perfect. This also applies to inventions. Electric lights were pioneered in the early 19th Century by Humphry Davy, who experimented with electricity and invented an electric battery. When he connected wires between his battery and a piece of carbon, the carbon glowed, producing light. His invention was known as the electric arc lamp. On December 17, 1903, Wilbur and Orville Wright achieved the first powered, sustained, and controlled flight, which had been dreamt of. There are so many more inventions that have come from astute human intelligence. One thing that stands out clearly is the possibility of these inventions to fail. When technology fails, it is usually unintentional. For example, https://www.researchgate.net writes the possible failure of future technologies such as recombinant DNA and nanotechnology might be associated with causes that have yet to be anticipated. It is in this light that the push by the NCS to work with Nigeria’s election umpire, INEC, to have a resilient technology driven election appears to be in order. But the computer body said its efforts to work with INEC have been rebuffed. President of NCS, Prof Adesina Sodiya, who spoke with reporters in Lagos at the weekend ahead of this year’s international conference of the Society, said the group wished to do stress analysis on BeFAS, but INEC had not been cooperating. He wondered, who is in INEC, that’s shielding and stopping the NCS from getting access to it. He said the computer body has written letters to INEC, which gets to it, acknowledged but gets killed within the establishment. Sodiya said the group has written to INEC requesting to conduct a technical assessment of BeFAS, adding that the machine is good on the surface.   Appeal Court seeks support over post- 2023 elections…     UPDATED: Buhari seeks Justice Ariwoola’s confirmation…     Interstate transporters begin 25 percent fare increase Aug…   He said technology is ever evolving, stressing the need to make it survivable. Like every tech, people are working to destabilise the system, he added. On the conference, he said the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, who  agreed to chair the event, Prof Isa Pantami; Director-General, National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) Aliyu Aziz (who will give the keynote address at the conference); Executive Vice Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof Umar Danbatta; and other international speakers have confirmed their participation at the tech fiesta. He said with 20,000 members spread across the states of the federation, NCS remained the largest national IT Society with highly skilled and domain experts in various fields of information technology. He said the conference would be held between August 2 and 4 with the theme: ‘Smart, Secure and Sustainable Nation (S3N 2022’). “In the last 44 years of NCS existence, our conference venue has been rotated among the six geopolitical zones in the country. “The conference was held last year in Akwa Ibom State. However, this year’s conference will hold at June 12 Cultural Centre, Abeokuta, Ogun State, Southwest. “The conference will be in hybrid form (physical and virtual attendance). The challenge posed by COVID-19 still affirms the need for Information Technology professionals to change their strategies,” he said. Sodiya said the theme of the conference: ‘Smart, Secure and Sustainable Nation (S3N 2022)’was chosen to provide the technological support for the government drives and vision in this modern society. He said: “The emergence of connected cities and data-driven nations is making planning and decision-making easier at the global level. Different studies have ranked African low in adopting technology to build a safe, secure, sustainable economy. “At the heart of the technology driving innovation is data and citizen engagement. In transforming our nation to meet future demand, we must use technology to create a more sustainable and liveable present and secure future for our citizens. “We must change our approach and challenge the status quo. Our quest for innovation leveraging research and development must increase.’’