You can’t, in all good conscience, expect Christian indifference to the texture — and perception — of a presidential ticket. So, if a segment of Nigerian Christendom appears hysteric over the Bola Tinubu-Kashim Shettima “Muslim-Muslim” ticket, cut them some slacks. If the situation was flipped, and Nigeria had a “Christian-Christian” ticket, the Muslim folks would perhaps make no less row. Yet, beyond religion as emotive red herring that crowds out clinical reason, there are more serious dynamics worthy of voters’ attention — a critical x-ray of the two major parties’ tickets, for instance. Add to that the noisome blokes of Peter Obi’s new love, Labour Party (LP), and you won’t be conceptually wrong. Between LP and Rabiu Kwankwaso’s New Nigerian People’s Party (both by the way, potential spoilers: LP for PDP in Obi’s South East; NNPP for APC in Kwankwaso’s Kano and the North West), there’s no rigorous study to determine the bigger. But LP makes this analysis (with APC and PDP) because of its stunts on the social media which, by the way, registers its raucous presence. Besides, LP has been there for quite a while now.  That means it can be fairly x-rayed, unlike NNPP, a mint-fresh platform, even if its sponsors are veterans. In LP, the candidate meets the platform on the altar of conceptual lies. Perhaps the first time LP tried to play the honest and conscientious platform was in the build-up to 2007, when Adams Oshiomhole’s LP teamed up with Tinubu’s Action Congress (AC) to challenge PDP’s ruinous hegemony in Edo (1999-2007). They triumphed, even if the PDP oligarchs, with a colluding “federal might”, tried to steal that mandate.  Still, the crowning ticket was AC, which seemed to have gobbled up LP, its legacy partner.  Oshiomhole would go ahead to make a rousing success of his retrieved Edo mandate, under the progressive tenet. But even as early as that, LP’s partisan prostitution was becoming manifest.  In Ondo, the slippery Segun Mimiko had fallen out with PDP, after earlier junking the defunct Alliance for Democracy (AD) and needed a dais to realize his gubernatorial ambition. Again, LP was game — milking Mimiko for funding as Mimiko milked it for pseudo-ideology — in a fit of mutual parasitism. All too soon, however, the party was over.  After dumping LP, and messing around with a wannabe Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Mimiko is back to his PDP vomit, in near-political wilderness.  The last time he ran, he couldn’t even win a Senate race.  So long for a self-dubbed Yoruba political leader-in-waiting! Now, comparing LP to candidate Obi, what strikes you is their bond of conceptual lies. Then, their mutual peripatetic profile. On conceptual lies: Obi hit the polity with his China stats, a euphemism for blatant lies, passing for racy but false stats on TV, with the ignorant but starry-eyed in raucous cheer. Hence: Obi’s not unfair public political persona as reflex liar! Then, he is peripatetic as LP is deep in partisan whoredom — just any candidate goes, so long as the cash is right!  Remember: Obi started with APGA, flirted with PDP and is now locked-in-love with LP.   July 4 and Nigeria’s gun spectre     Jonathan’s marine tales     Between Apero and Ilana Oodua    For the historic-minded, his APGA entry point might well have been nothing but fine opportunism.  Chinwoke Mbadinuju (first governor in 1999) had run Anambra down.  In the PDP sweepstakes, the likes of Peter Obi stood no chance, with the likes of Chris Ngige waiting in the wings. With Emeka Ojukwu brimming vibrant Igbo nationalism, against PDP’s national appeal but Awka paralysis, APGA offered a rather convenient berth for Peter Obi, with all the thick Igbo symbolism to spare.  But with Ojukwu gone, Obi had moved on. Yes, he stanched the wastes of the Mabadinuju years, which nevertheless was logical follow-up to Chris Ngige’s stellar work, though Ngige’s tenure was declared void. But beyond stopping that bleeding, Obi left not much legacy.  If some folks now crow over his basic work, it’s perhaps due more to Igbo trademark over-exhibition, as noted by Chinua Achebe in his swan song, There Was A Country, than any legacy worth its brag. Now, would any serious country put its fate in a collapsible platform like LP and a fleeting candidate like Obi? The electorate would decide.  But it’s sure a much more critical interrogation of platform and ticket, than waxing emotive on religion, the bastion of personal faith. Now, to the big two, APC and PDP, and their candidates. On this, we have a ready historical frame: Atiku Abubakar was Vice President when Bola Tinubu was governor of Lagos, between 1999 and 2007. Now, the similarities.  As Atiku had challenges with his principal, so much so that their second term was sheer mutual attrition, so did Tinubu have challenges with his deputies, which spanned his eight-year tenure.  Indeed, Tinubu changed his first deputy (Senator Kofoworola Akerele-Bucknor) early with Femi Pedro, himself to be replaced by the elderly Prince Abiodun Ogunleye, at the twilight of his second term. Yet, the impact of this political tension, on the two administrations’ policies, couldn’t be starker.  While the one appeared badly dented, the other appeared unscathed. Take their approach to the Lagos Bar Beach ocean surge.  Abuja’s joker — and the pun is very much intended! — was giving party hacks the contract to supply endless tipper loads of sand and sand bags.  But Ikeja’s cutting idea was to dream a new smart city from the ocean surge crisis: the Eko Atlantic City. Living history has shown whose policy mind was sharper! Indeed, the approach to the Bar Beach challenge was a fitting metaphor for both administrations. Tinubu and his Lagos policy gang were frothing innovative ideas: multi-modal transport — rail, road and water; independent power (the Enron scheme), smart investment in GSM telephony, pioneering the bond market to raise cheap funds for infrastructural upgrade and federalizations of core agencies, like transport police (LASTMA) and sanitation police (Kick Against Indiscipline corps). But the unfazed projectors of power and brawn from Abuja were busy boasting, bragging and flexing muscles; obstructing and throttling every fresh thinking! Achebe was right: when a bully sees one he can thrash, he becomes hungry for a fight! Still, the fair question is: had Atiku and Obasanjo ruled Nigeria as Tinubu had managed Lagos in those critical opening years from 1999 to 2007, would the country still be grappling with core issues as power and infrastructure uptick today? These are key questions for the major tickets in the run-up to 2023.  True, it’s much more difficult than easy luxuriating in the hot passion of Muslim-Muslim/Christian-Christian tickets. Yet, they are the crucial questions that can, from candidates, elicit the truth which, in Bible-speak, would set everyone free; and make election cycles a referendum on rewarding progress and development; but punishing failure and paralysis.