Rivers United are the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) champions elect for the first time since their formation in 2016 even with three games to the end of the season. The Pride of Rivers’ domineering campaign this season is well acknowledged by its gladiators. TUNDE LIADI reports . Six years after the merger of  Sharks FC and Dolphins  to become Rivers United , the Pride of Rivers have won their first league title even with  three games to spare before the end of the season. On the last count, the Stanley Eguma-led side  garnered 14 points from nine away games including famous victories at Enyimba and Kano Pillars and the 4-1 whiplash of former champions, Akwa United in Port Harcourt on Matchday 19. The Port Harcourt side didn’t rest on their first round impressive stats as they added eight more points from their away games in the second stanza from eight games away from home. They defeated Katsina United and Dakkada FC away and picked a point against Akwa United in Uyo and another point in Awka against Enugu Rangers. It has been a near dominating performance for Rivers United this season and their current 71 points from 35 games put them just two points shy of equalling the 73 points haul for a season set by Dolphins FC in 2011.They will now try to erase it and set theirs knowing that only a win from the last three games which have two home games with Kano Pillars and Gombe United will see them overtake that. With three games to the end of the season, players and officials of the club are  wallowing  in the joy of winning the league title for the first time in their chequered career, Super Eagles midfielder Chiamaka Madu  who won the league title with Enugu Rangers in 2016,  described his  repeated  feat with Rivers United as  a great opportunity since club he joined  them at the beginning of the season. He told NationSport that he is overwhelmed with joy and that he traded the Flying Antelopes for his current club because he was convinced about the project at the club, adding he was not surprised that they emerged as champions because they had worked very hard during the preseason. “When I got the call that Rivers United were interested in my services at the beginning of the season, I was initially sceptical because of the fear of leaving my comfort zone. I have been with Rangers for over five years and I was comfortable there,” Madu said. ” Coach  Eguma told me about the project at the club and what he wanted  me to contribute to it. “I was happy he spoke to me so reassuringly and  I decided to heed the call for a change of environment,  I have not regretted the decision. “We worked so hard during the pre season and we were rewarded with good results at the start of the season. I am happy to win my second league title. We still have three games to the end of the season. We hope to end the season well.”   Calabar Port roars back to life after three years of…     Drogba: Osimhen can be ‘best striker in the…     Tanzania side, Azam unveil Plateau United’s Ndala   Rivers United and NPFL leading scorer, Chijioke Akuneto is another player who has ‘exploded’ in his debut season with the Pride of Rivers. The former Heartland and MFM winger has scored 16 goals with a couple of assists to help the club to the league title. He enthused that working under coach Eguma has been good for him and that it didn’t take him a long time to accept the call from Rivers United because he has always loved to work with the coach. “I knew I won’t remain at my former club because of the way the season panned out and different clubs actually came for my signature but I settled for Rivers United because  I  looked at the bigger picture,” Akuneto stated. “I can say this is by far my best season in the league and I am glad I have won my first league title after going so close with MFM in 2017. “I am thrilled I am able to contribute my quota with my goals. I hope to get a few more before the end of the season.” Yet Ishaq Rafiu was the poster boy of Rivers United in the first stanza but with  his 14 goals, he is currently behind Akuneto, Abdulazeez Yusuf (Gombe United) and Victor Mbaoma (Enyimba) who are all on 16 goals each in the race for the NPFL Best Marksman. The  former Shooting Stars and Remo Stars winger could not contain his excitement after sealing his first league title and he is optimistic of ending the season impressively. “I am happy to win my first league title as a player; it has been a tough journey but we have been able to conquer all adversities,” Rafiu, a Super Eagles winger, expressed. “We have been very consistent with our performance since the beginning of the season because we know what we wanted out of the season. “This  is a reward for hard work that we do not have to wait until the end of the season before the league title is won.”I am glad I am part of the history making team. I can’t really state the reason why my performance didn’t meet up with the first stanza but I hope to prove doubters wrong in the last three games,” Rafiu concluded. Meanwhile, Rivers United Technical Manager, Stanley Eguma disclosed that he was not surprised they won the league title with some games to the end of the season because they have been very direct with their approach to win the league title this season.   He also added that they would maintain the fulcrum of most of the players that won the title for them but will look into one or two areas that needed to be strengthened.