Codeable, an initiative that seeks to solve the problem of inequality in accessing quality technology education for youths will be supporting vulnerable youths from low-income societies. The targeted vulnerable youths include those from low-income backgrounds, and those with disabilities. All of whom have a reduced likelihood of accessing quality technology education, most especially those living with intellectual disabilities who experience stigma and limited access to services, thereby limiting their chances to meaningful employment. Codeable, is a multi-year unified initiative enabled through the partnership of SeamlessHR and Special Olympics Nigeria to provide free unified training on technology and technology related subjects to youths, with and without intellectual disabilities. Thus, improving their marketability through empowerment with in-demand skills that are useful and relevant in the workforce.   Flourish Africa Fund empowers 500 female entrepreneurs     NGX woos investors to Africa’s growth market     Roles of capital market in national development, by experts   The initiative commenced  on July 4 with the pioneer cohort of 26 youths with and without intellectual disabilities. Each year, for the next three years, the Codeable initiative will facilitate training for the youth in two cohorts. Each cohort will undergo a training with a curriculum that covers programming, quality assurance, product management, and various other technology and soft skills education, for a minimum duration of three months. The goal is to positively impact and change the lives of a minimum of 150 youths through the provision of free technology and other work readiness skills acquisition. The participating youths will be more versed with the technology industry, basic coding knowledge, management and other professional skills that will prepare them for the workforce. Other benefits include preparations for internship placement at SeamlessHR and various other companies. Interested youth should send an email to info@sonigeria.org for the chance to join this initiative. Special Olympics Nigeria is part of a worldwide movement (Special Olympics International) that is aimed at changing the misconceptions individuals have about people with intellectual disabilities through various sports training and athletic competitions in a variety of Olympic – type sports for children and adults with intellectual disabilities thus providing a platform where their abilities are celebrated in the society. SeamlessHR is an HR technology company focused on helping businesses in emerging markets become more productive and successful by deploying well-designed, world-class technology solutions. The startup’s eponymous product suite is a robust, cloud-based, end-to-end HR software that helps businesses manage their entire human resource processes from hire to retire. The enterprise-grade solution caters to various companies, from SMEs with fewer than 100 employees to large enterprises with over 10,000 employees. SeamlessForGood is its CSR unit.