The 28th Aseyin of Iseyin, Oba Abdul Ganiyy Salawudeen, has joined his ancestors. He breathed his last at the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan on Sunday morning after a protracted illness. A source close to him revealed the monarch had been admitted at the private suite of the hospital for over two weeks before he passed on at 62. Aseyin’s passage was the fourth among first- class Obas in the State after the late Soun of Ogbomoso Oba Jimoh Oyewumi last December; immediate past Olubadan of Ibadan Oba Saliu Adetunji in January and Alaafin of Oyo Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III in April. Governor Seyi Makinde has also buried two of his predecessors – Abiola Ajimobi in 2020 and Adebayo Alao-Akala earlier this year. Confirming his death, the Head of Public Relations Unit of the UCH Mr Toye Akinrinlola said Oba Salawudeen joined his ancestors Sunday morning, adding his remains were already at the morgue of the hospital.   My two girlfriends know each other – Hermes     Police recruitment will be on merit – IGP     Police Inspector, one other killed as gunmen attack foreign…   The late monarch was a University of Ibadan-trained veterinary doctor. He was said to have ascended the throne in 2006. A statement from the family said his remains would be buried on Monday.. The statement reads: “ The entire Aseyin Royal family regrets to announce the transition of our father and Aseyin of Iseyin, Oba Dr. Abdulganiy Salawudeen Adekunle Oloogunebi Ajinese 1, which happened on the wee hours of Sunday, the 24th July, 2022 after a protracted illness. “Oba Adekunle, whose demise came after spending sixty-two (62) years on earth and fifteen (15) years on the throne will be buried on Monday 25th July, 2022. “The entire Aseyin Royal family appreciates the Executive Governor of Oyo State, Engineer Oluseyi Abiodun Makinde, the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy, Mr. Bayo Lawal for their support during his illness. God Almighty will continue to bless and see them through.” The statement was signed by the secretary to the Aseyin family, Prince Femi Olaore.