Comedienne Oluwadamilola Adekoya aka Princess has reacted to the verdict passed on her embattled colleague Olanrewaju Omiyinka aka Baba Ijesha by an Ikeja Special Offences Court. Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo of the Ikeja Domestic Violence and Sexual Offences Court on Thursday sentenced Baba Ijesha to 16 years imprisonment. The actor is facing six-count of child defilement that include indecent treatment of a child, sexual assault, attempted sexual assault by penetration and sexual assault by penetration; offences which contravene Section 135, 137, 261, 202, 262 and 263 of the Lagos State Criminal Law 2015. Reacting to her colleague’s conviction, Princess shared a video which captured her in a religious attire singing along to a Yoruba worship song as she extolled God for delivering justice to her. She captioned the video “God is not man.” Reacting actress Iyabo Ojo who followed up on the case from the onset glorified God for giving victory not just to them but for every child, boy and girl being abused. Iyabo Ojo said: “We give God all the glory… This victory is for all the girl child & boy child being abused….. Never be AFRAID to Speak up & Speak out ….. @princesscomedian.” Fans and well-wishers have hit the comment section with congratulatory message on justice served. clarisunique said: “Big congratulations. It ended in praise to God. Shame to all your detractors.”   Flavour consoles white lady scammed by impersonator     Olamide gives fan N2.4million wristwatch     VIDEO: Actress Destiny Etiko curses troll tying her…   tolafaith wrote: “Halleluyah is the sound of victory.” bolatitosowunmi stated: “Congratulations… what God cannot do does not exist.” tope_adeshina_animasaun_ said: “Wow victory at last congratulations sis.” toppiyano_ wrote: “You fought a great battle. Thank God for victory.” oluwarinumi_ stated: “Congratulations. I rejoice with you sis truly yeye ti pa da Di ayeye.” per_yardfabrics said: “God is not man.. Alhamdulilah Robilialami. Victory at last . Oluwaseun oo. Great mum.” shopwith_folasplace wrote: “Yes o, God has vindicated you hallelujah.” posho_beads_fascinators stated: “God isn’t man. He will always vindicate His own.” ayoadeojuolape said: “Congrats ma. I am really proud you stood firm.” itz_adamsel wrote: “Congratulations ma’am… finally God has vindicated you.”