The Kashim Shettima unveiling, on July 20, threw out of joint the nose of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN); and that of other ethnic bigots. Both went berserk over a bomb from Shettima — devastating to them, pleasant to non-bigots: that Paul Ojukwu, an Igbo Christian from Southern Nigeria, is Shettima’s adopted son! Paul is proud beneficiary of rare “Muslim” charity done in utmost privacy 15-years ago, by the part-holder of CAN’s “hated” Muslim-Muslim ticket!  Abomination! Though from Shettima the Muslim, isn’t that akin to Christ-like charity: that bit about not letting your left hand know what your right hand is giving?  But for the holy hate of CAN and co, would Shettima ever have gone public on this 15-year-old benevolence — and still counting? Besides, CAN wilted at the sight of Christian clerics at the Shettima presentation, despite its theocratic decree!  But it turned its deep angst into cheap bluff and bluster. So panic-stricken, and in concert with its hysterical social media confederates, CAN crunched its many sour grapes, which further set its teeth on edge!  With that it growled and screeched, hoping its row would drown the reality it hates to see! So long for CAN that rolled out a “fatwa” it couldn’t enforce!    As all the waters of the Atlantic could not wash the blood off the regicidal hands of Shakespeare’s evil Lady Macbeth, all the cacophony of lies on social media won’t block out CAN’s well-earned shame. It’s a fair price to pay for the so-called men of God, preening as imperious gods of men, decreeing political choices for co-citizens, in a 21st century democracy! This naked dance of CAN is somewhat reminiscent of Geoffrey Chaucer’s work, Prologue to Canterbury Tales, a biting satire on Catholic England in Medieval times.  Christendom sure has a chequered history of its most rotten preening as its finest! In Canterbury Tales, the most discounted was the Parson, tenderer of a humble, near-unknown, rural parish.  Yet, only him, followed the biblical straight and narrow path. Among the most celebrated, among the Papal establishment on the pilgrimage, were the Pardoner and the Summoner.  The Pardoner boasted his bag choked with papal pardons, “hot, fresh and smoking from Rome.”  For a hefty fee, you could obtain those holy pardons! For the Summoner, of the papal Police, just imagine the “wetin you carry” policemen of today, degraded a thousand times!  That was the Summoner’s level of illicit hustle, while dragooning poor locals to the holy court! Faced with all of the celebrated abuse in the holy court, the meek Parson gifted the most immortal quote from the entire work: “If gold rusts, what will iron do?” That is a fair poser today to CAN — and, of course, to the Nigerian media: for its lowest-common-denominator thinking, at a very delicate juncture where it ought to put its supposed acute mind and critical thinking on high alert but is failing on every front. If you think that’s harsh, just contrast how BBC Hausa Service treated the row over the “unknown bishops” with how the Nigerian media treated the same subject. With BBC’s permission, juxtapose the answers to questions, to a “real” and “fake” bishop, by the BBC Hausa service: Reverend John Joseph Hayab, Kaduna CAN chairman and acting chairman of CAN in the 19 northern states: “They are not bishops. We don’t know them. They are charlatans hired to show that they have support. If you are a Christian, you know how Christian clergy wear their garb. Some of them are Christians.  Some are not even Christians.”  In other words, the gown makes the monk!   Muslim-Muslim ticket as red herring     July 4 and Nigeria’s gun spectre     Jonathan’s marine tales   Pastor Edward Williams, one of the so-called “fake” bishops: “We are real pastors. If they say we are fake pastors, that’s their opinion. Pastorship is God’s calling, not Man’s calling. When God called us, they were not there. Only God can say who’s a real pastor.” Still on fakery: BBC to Hayab: “Are you saying all of them are fake?” Hayab: “If they are not fake, let them tell us their churches.” Williams’ riposte on how Christian clergy wear their garb: “That’s nonsense — just media hype.” These are instructive sound bytes from two supposed men of God: the one celebrated, the other scorned; the one brash and loud, the other gentle and reasonable. Track back to Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales: you could see that the spirit of the Pardoner/Summoner — brash, unconscionable and pompous as they come, still lives in CAN, just as that of the humble and meek Parson lives in the so-called “fake bishops”! It took CAN’s reckless dance, in the market of high-wire politics and politicking, to once again expose this dirty underbelly. Still, Ripples is not necessarily perturbed by CAN.  It’s a hubris-stricken collective, which seems unable to learn from history and is therefore fated to be consumed by it. Four years ago, the trio of Catholic Bishop Matthew Kukah, Winners’ Bishop David Oyedepo (both among Christendom Nigeria’s twinkling stars) and Islamic cleric, Sheikh Abubakar Gumi, went to Abeokuta to plead Atiku Abubakar’s case, not with voters but with arch-narcissist, former President Olusegun Obasanjo, and his eternal, elephantine grudge against Atiku.  Eventually, the voters ignored them and their comedy. Months after, Kukah would rave and Oyedepo would bawl, under the guise of public-spirited citizen commentary from their elevated pulpits.  But the election was lost and won! Since President Goodluck Jonathan thrust CAN into his failed re-election run of 2015, CAN has catapulted itself on the political road to perdition.  It may yet meet another crunchy comeuppance in 2023. Without prejudice to Christian’s legitimate interest and worry over a presidential ticket that excludes one of their own, Nigeria’s challenges are beyond the colour of a ticket.  It’s the substance that should interest — and worry — voters. This is where the Nigerian media, always following the herd it should shepherd, constitutes a greater menace. The following quote from Sadeeq Shehu’s Facebook post, on the Nigerian media’s poor interrogation of the “fake bishops” row, contrasted to BBC Hausa’s, just underscores the contempt many readers, listeners and viewers hold their home media: “Hear question from one of Nigerian journalists from The Whistler as he pursued one of the ‘unknown bishops’: What can you tell Nigerians as a Christian that you’re attending this event? You don’t want to talk to Nigerians? Are you supporting Muslim- Muslim ticket? Shameless and unprofessional!”  Flat and pedestrian too! Yet, it’s such a delicate juncture which compels the media to ask the right questions and report in the right contexts.  Otherwise, they would lead voters to perdition and start all over again their trademark listless wailing they self-servingly dub “criticism”. Meanwhile, enough of the row over “Muslim-Muslim” ticket.  Time to focus on real issues.