Nollywood actor Kunle Remi has opened up on the factors he considers before accepting a movie role. The actor, who was on an Instagram live with Kunle Afolayan said, “I am going to start by talking from before and now. Before, I will take most scripts that go with my morals or discipline, I will take most scripts based on the fact that I am trying to prove myself, I am trying to prove a point. And while I was doing that I got stuck in the loop of looking the same way every time in every script. “So, now crossing over for me or maturing to a point where you send me a script and the first thing I am looking for is who is the character I am about to play? Would I see myself in this character? If I see myself in this character, I think it is very easy, if I am not going to see myself in this character then it seems like it works for me, so now I am interested in the work because this is not Kunle, this is not close to Kunle.”   EMEKA OKORO: My faith determines role I play     Toyin Abraham, Okanlawon feature in The Stranger I Know     My relationship with Basketmouth, by Lisa Viola   Speaking further, the ex-Gulder Ultimate Search contestant and current host took his role in an upcoming film, Anikulapo, to drive home his point. He said, “Another important thing I have come to understand or look out for is for example let me use the movie ‘Anikulapo’  because that’s a recent project. I am going to use this as my benchmark, ‘Anikuplapo’ first is a language film, I have done one or two things in Yoruba but you know diluted Yoruba, then I get these scripts that say I am not speaking the Lagos Yoruba, that I would be speaking Yoruba Oyo, the proper deep Yoruba I do not speak normally now I am thinking of getting a coach, I am thinking of how do I get into this, my brain is already getting to work just by understanding that this script is not normal, it is not the regular easy-peasy English. I get the English version and the next thing the director says I am sending you the Yoruba one so drop the English one I have to read the Yoruba one first and you know now reading from your brain and saying it out is two different things.” Continuing, he said, “So my brain can articulate these things but I can’t seem to pronounce the words or get them right immediately I had to keep trying so that was a challenge for me.”