Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has said victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the election will enable him build on achievements he had so far recorded since assuming leadership of the state. He also predicted that APC will record a landslide victory in the poll. The governor spoke yesterday during an engagement with the All Farmers’ Association of Nigeria (AFAN) in Osogbo. Represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, the governor, appealed to the electorate not to be deceived by desperate politicians. Oyetola, who stressed he had been serving the state diligently since the beginning of his administration, said those who lacked administrative capacity must not be allowed to truncate the development the state is witnessing.   Why I selected Shettima as running mate, by Tinubu     Oyetola to Adeleke: your mandate was not stolen     Obi-dient tyrants?   He added: “My desire is to win the July 16 election with a wide margin. The electorate are on my side, my achievements are there to speak for me and God is willing to crown my efforts.” The governor also appealed to the electorate to resist the temptation to sell their votes, saying that they should not ‘allow those who have declared to win the election with dollars and euro disrupt steady growth Osun is recording’. He said: “I appeal to the electorate to resist the temptation of selling their votes to desperate politicians. Osun is not for sale, neither are the people of the state for sale. Those who are bragging around with dollars to win the election have nothing to offer; they are only desperate to get the power without anything tangible to offer the state, and we must not allow them to have access to our treasury.” Governor Oyetola however said his administration will continue to support the farmers with necessary inputs and implements. He said his government has set aside 1,000 hectares of land for farming to boost food sufficiency and make the state the food basket of the Southwest. The initiative, according to him, is to rejuvenate the agricultural sector by making it more attractive and productive to farmers, particularly the young ones. AFAN Chairman Suleiman Araokanmi praised the governor for his various interventions in agriculture, and appealed to the government to help farmers with more inputs to enhance food production.