The Southeast Zone of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is set to inaugurate the Asiwaju Bola Tinubu 2023 Presidential Project on August 13. The event will be chaired by the party’s governorship candidate in the November 6, 2021 election in Anambra State, Senator Andy Uba. It will also have Ebonyi and Imo States’ Governors Dave Umahi and Hope Uzodinma as special guests of honour. Senate Chief Whip Orji Uzor Kalu and Ebonyi State House of Assembly Speaker Francis Nwifuru will be the distinguished guests of honour. The Father of the Day is Dr. Marcel Nwaonu, while Ambassador Ginika Tor of the Federal Character Commission (FCC) will be the Mother of the Day. The Anambra State Coordinator of the project, Hero Emmanuel and the Publicity Secretary, Anyaeji Afam, announced these while speaking with The Nation yesterday in Awka, the Anambra State capital. The launch, according to him, is being coordinated by the Southeast Zonal Chairman of Asiwaju Grassroots Foundation (AGF, Project Beyond 2023), Mr. Marcello Anyigor.   Appeal Court seeks support over post- 2023 elections…     UPDATED: Buhari seeks Justice Ariwoola’s confirmation…     Interstate transporters begin 25 percent fare increase Aug…   Already, different committees have been set up to ensure the success of the launch, which will hold in Enugu State. Few days ago, the state coordinators from Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu and Imo met for the finishing touches on the event. The meeting was attended by all the Southeast Publicity Secretaries, Organising Secretaries, Women Leaders of the organisation, among others. The Southeast mega programme, titled: A Colloquium on Asiwaju National Unity and Inauguration of Their Local Government/Ward Coordinators, will attract political heavyweights within and outside the zone. Speaking further on the launch, Emmanuel said the organisation wanted to use the event to tell Nigerians that the Ndigbo were truly behind Asiwaju Tinubu’s presidential project.  He said social media had deceived the public a lot, adding that majority of Igbo were not part of the social media deceit. According to Emmanuel, APC’s vice presidential candidate, Senator Kashim Shettima, as well as Senator Musliu Obanikoro and Realwan Okpanachi, would be guest speakers at the programme. “We are not playing on the Tinubu-Shettima 2023 project. It will work like a Nollywood movie to some of our people in Igbo land,” he said.