Actress Tonto Dikeh’s ex-lover, Prince Joseph Kpokpogri, has filed a N2 billion lawsuit against the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) for the demolition of his multi-million naira mansion. Following an ex-parte application that Kpokpogri filed through his team of lawyers led by Chief Mike Ozekhome, SAN, the court gave the order restraining the FCT Minister from further demolishing the residence. Asides the FCT Minister, other Defendants in the suit are the Federal Capital Territory Administration and the Federal Capital Development Authority, Abuja Metropolitan Management Council, Federal Housing Authority, and the Attorney General of the Federation. The court issued an order of interim injunction restraining the Defendants either by themselves, agents, officials, privies, all those purporting to have derived title from them or other persons howsoever called from trespassing on or further trespassing on, demolishing, or further demolishing the property known as Plots 203 and 204, 27 Road, Gusape District, Apo Estate, Abuja, covered by letters of allocation issued by the Federal Housing Authority with Ref. No. FHA/BD/ES/APO/P.203 and Ref. No. FHA/BD/ES/APO/P.204 or from evicting the occupants of the said property or in any way interfering with the plaintiff’s exclusive right of possession of the said property pending the determination of the motion on notice.   BREAKING: Panic as fire guts tank farm in Delta     Buhari arrives Daura for Sallah celebration     JJC was not a nobody   In the substantive suit, Kpokpogri, is among other things, praying the court to order the Defendants to pay him aggravated and general damages to the tune of N2billion. On May 14, Kpokpogri alleged that his building at Guzape worth over N700m was unlawfully demolished by the Federal Capital Development Authority without notice. He claimed that the decision to pull down his mansion was an act of oppression. Kpokpogiri alleged that his house was demolished because he refused to sell it to “some powerful” but unnamed individuals who had begged him to sell the property to them. He assured that he would fight fervently to get justice for the demolished building.