Ahead of the 2022 Commonwealth Games holding in Birmingham in the United Kingdom, the leadership of the Lagos Chapter of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (Lagos SWAN)  has paid a courtesy call on the Nigeria Olympics Committee Secretary General  Olabanji Oladapo. The Executive led by its chairman, Debo Oshundun said the call was a thank you visit for the technical support for its members travelling to Birmingham for the games which starts on July 28th. “We are really grateful for the assistance rendered to our members during their accreditation, approval and also visa issuance. We will remember this for a very long time because many of our interested members (young and old) got visas to cover one of the most prestigious multi sports event on earth,” Oshundun said. As the nation counts down to this year’s game, the Lagos SWAN’s leadership promised that its members going  to  Birmingham would put Nigeria first in its reportage, while focusing on the exploits of the athletes. “Our members are once again determined to put Nigeria first. The athletes are our top priorities. We want to tell their stories the best way we can and project their activities to the world and primarily to Nigerians back home,” he added. In his response, the NOC scribe thanked the Lagos SWAN leadership for deeming it fit to visit him, adding the cordial relationship between the NOC and Lagos SWAN leadership will continue to grow. He said: ” No fewer than 731 Nigerians journalists applied for accreditation, the highest we have ever seen.   Super Eagles Bassey completes £20m move to Ajax     Free agent Dybala signs for Mourinho’s Roma     Napoli makes Plan B for Osimhen   “A large number were declined, but it took the intervention of NOC, the Commonwealth Games Federation to accredit the number that were eventually allowed to cover the games. ” I will appeal to the journalists covering the games to project the image of the country positively during the games ” There is need for confirmation of any information before writing, please contact the NOC. “I also want to urge those of you travelling to adhere to the rule and regulation put in place by the organisers. ” We don’t want to see incident of deportation of any of our journalist due to lack of adherence to rules. “This has been a long time coming. On behalf of the President, Engr Habu Gumel, I will like to thank you for visiting us.” The meeting also had in attendance Lagos SWAN secretary, Bunmi Ogunyale and the association’s assistant secretary, Oni Afolabi.