As part of its efforts to ameliorate the harsh economic crunch on the youth, indigenous technology conglomerate, the Zinox Group, has offered employment to a batch of unemployed  graduates who scaled through its internship. The successful graduates, numbering over 50 out of over 5,000 qualified applicants drawn from various parts of the country, were among the second batch of participants who passed through a 30-day intensive Mini-MBA training programme organised by the Zinox Institute of Technology (ZIT). Participants were exposed to world-class training, job-suitability scenarios and capacity building workshops across various management functions, including accounts, procurement, core engineering, software development, Business development, etiquette and grooming, HR/Administration, among others. The sessions were facilitated by a faculty of over 20 reputed resource persons, with the Zinox Group Chairman, Leo Stan Ekeh. The initiative, which the management of Zinox said is part of its contributions to giving hope to many Nigerians amid the difficulties in the local and global economy, witnessed over 5,000 applications from qualified graduates across the country.   NCS pushes for credible, tech-driven election     Extending broadband to underserved communities     CBN deepens inclusion via RoutePay licence   Also, the recruitment will continue in batches, with successful candidates who emerge from the scheme absorbed into any multiple entities in the Zinox Group. While encouraging the successful candidates not to betray the confidence reposed in them, Ekeh urged them not to lose faith in Nigeria. He admonished them to shun negative sentiments or news reports about the future of the country, adding that the  economy has passed through other trying times in the past, even as he expressed optimism that it would equally emerge stronger from its challenges. ‘‘Those of you selected have a unique opportunity to re-write your destinies and that of those around you. I have consciously given you the secret of our little successes.  So, I encourage you to work hard, avoid vices and repay the trust shown in you. And for the ladies, this is possibly the only group of companies in the world that has five CEOs who are globally certified women. So, you should work with pride because you earned it. ‘‘Also, I wish to remind you that, despite the current challenges in the economy, we have not even scratched the surface, when it comes to the huge potential that abounds in the Nigerian economy. I urge you to pay no heed to negative projections about Nigeria. ‘‘In the 21st Century, many people talk but you have to remain selectively deaf to succeed. Continue to show faith and belief in the future of a more prosperous Nigeria, irrespective of the present difficulties. I am certain that it will get better soon. On our part, we will consistently do our best to provide opportunities for deserving beneficiaries to achieve their full potential,’’ he added.