When the messengers of death came calling at about 10.25 that quiet Tuesday, nobody expected them. Residents of Kuje community have lived in peace with the Medium Custodial Centre that hosts very important prisoners (VIPs) in the country, from convicted former governors, senior police officers standing trial, to Boko Haram commanders. A resident of the community, who simply gave her name as Mercy, said when she heard the first gunshot she thought it was banger but subsequent gun shots made her terrified. She recalled:  “I have lived here for about five years and never heard of anything like the nightmare of Tuesday. I heard staccato of gun shots, which I never thought would have come from attackers. I called my friend that shares the same apartment with me to stay away because of the confusion that has engulfed the community.” Asked if she tried calling the toll free number-112 connected to emergency communication centres (ECCs) to get help, she said she wasn’t aware of the existence of such a number. Mercy is not alone. Mr. Joseph Akeredolu, an event planner, Mrs Yusuf Khadijat, a teacher, who said she had lived in the neighbourhood for 10 years, Malam Abdullahi Ibrahim, a trader, who owns a house in the neighbourhood ,and others that recounted their ordeals on the night of the horrendous attack didn’t make efforts to dial 112 to alert security agencies and other emergency responders to come to their aid. Aside Abuja, Benue, Kwara, Plateau, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Ogun, Ekiti, Ondo, Oyo, Edo, Akwa Ibom, Cross Rivers, Imo, Enugu, Anambra and Adamawa, and about seven other states have activated the ECC and 112 toll free line. According to online knowledge bank, Wikipedia, 112 is a common emergency telephone number that can be dialled free from most mobile telephones, and in some countries, fixed telephones in order to reach emergency services (ambulance, fire and rescue, police). 112 is a part of the global system for mobile communication (GSM) standard and GSM-compatible telephone handsets are able to dial 112 even when locked or, in some countries, with no SIM card present. It is also the common emergency number in nearly member states of the European Union as well as several other countries of Europe and the world. 112 is often available alongside other numbers traditionally used in the given country to access emergency services. To bridge the communication gap between emergency responders and people in distress, the Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC) had embarked on the construction of ECCs across the country and complemented it with the launch of the toll-free line-112. Unveiling the Abuja ECC facility and kick off of the 112 National Emergency Number in Mbora District, Abuja, President Muhammadu Buhari said the 112 Number demonstrates the Federal Government’s  resolve to keep Nigerians safe.   2023: North West APC backs Tinubu-Shettima’s ticket     Banditry: Extend security forces’ retirement age,…     BREAKING: Lagos PDP Gov candidate unveils Funke Akindele as…   “We have taken advantage of digital technologies to ensure that Nigerians in distress are only a dial away from the relevant emergency response institutions in the country” via the 112 Number. According to Buhari, the NCC’s 112 National Emergency Number will go a long way in supporting efforts to improve the security of lives and property. NCC CEO, Prof Garba Danbatta said there is collaboration between the regulatory body and other security and emergency response agencies especially at the ECCs. He said  the challenges besetting the nation could be tackled with scaling up the degree of deployment of electronic strategies. To underscore the imperative of electronic and digital communication systems in managing the nation’s security challenges, Danbatta said: “As we are addressing the situation in one part of the country, you find escalation in another part of the country”. He said the 112 Emergency Communication Number are routed to the ECCs, as “a practical implementation of a security system that is bringing succour to citizens in distress” and expressed satisfaction that there is an increasing “interface between citizens who are in distressed security situation and virtually all security and other emergency response agencies connected to it”. Danbatta described the ECCs as a well-conceived project that has enhanced the capacity of agencies in the security governance sector to manage crises. He said the Centres are well-equipped to address the purpose for which they were established. “In addition to the 23 already established and functioning ECCs, the Commission will soon activate ECCs in nine more states, and also plan to inaugurate similar projects in the remaining four states by the end of 2022, in keeping with Federal Government’s directive,” he said. The EVC noted that in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic crisis in Nigeria, over 1,500 calls connected to COVID-19-related incidents were received and processed by the Centres. “The Centres provided a platform for members of the public to seek life-saving information and support with regards to COVID-19 related cases by dialing ‘112’ from any of the networks. More remarkably, Nigerians have become more aware of and are using the 122 Emergency Number. Between January and August, 2021, about 34 million calls were made by Nigerians, who were seeking succor during emergencies or under other security threats and unrest within their communities,” Dambatta said. Security experts say the Commission needed to do more in the area of public enlightenment to keep Nigerians abreast with the availability of platforms through which they could seek and get help, not only in times of emergencies, but at peace time, especially when they have issues with the quality of service (QoS) rendered to telecom subscribers. “It is not enough to create platforms. The Commission must go a step further to make people know that the platform exists for them in times of emergencies. In developed countries, both the young and the old know about the toll-free emergency lines. They do not only dial the number when the house is engulfed in flames, they call the line when they notice suspicious movements within their environment. They also dial the number when they suspect that a child is being molested or abused,” the expert said on condition of anonymity. He however added that prompt response will serve as an incentive to keep calling the number. “A situation where you dial the number and you are directed to a machine or the call is not picked at all will not encourage people to keep using the facility. Calls must be picked promptly or directed to the appropriate responders, be it the Police, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Nigeria Army,  Fire service and others,” he added.