Amid a divorce battle, legendary singer, Paul Okoye of the P-Square group, has been dragged to court by his estranged wife, Anita, over infidelity during their marriage. Last year, the news about the sudden separation between Paul and his estranged wife, Anita, broke out with the latter reportedly citing unfaithfulness on the part of her husband. Recall that the pair met in 2004 during their undergraduate days at the University of Abuja and got married on March 22, 2014, in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. Their union has produced three children; Andre — born in 2013 — and the twins, Nathan and Nadia, born in 2017. Last year, Anita had filed for divorce. She requested the dissolution of her marriage with Paul, as per a partly redacted court document that surfaced and went viral on social media platforms.   ‘My abductors cut my long hair with machete, fearing it was…     Forty eight hours and more after PDP dared OBJ     When marriage isn’t sitcom…Funke Akindele’s second marriage…   According to the petition filed at the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Anita cited “irreconcilable difference” as her reason, asking Paul to challenge it if he felt disgruntled. But in another court document seen by The Nation yesterday, Anita filed a lawsuit against Paul Okoye at a High Court in Abuja. She also revealed several chats between the singer and other women. Anita had accused the singer of having an affair with one of their housemaids named Florence. According to the leaked documents, it was stated that Paul Okoye sent his estranged wife and her sister packing after they discovered the affair between him and the housemaid. It was also stated that the singer boasted about it, claiming it was a means to clip his wife’s wings so she could have no one else to lean on. Anita also alleged that Paul Okoye showed little interest in his kids’ upbringing and barely participated in training them. She added that he backed out of an undertaking by failing to give her brand, TannkCo, a space in the mall to which she contributed N10 million for the purchase of the land and the building of the mall. These, she said, were her reasons for filing a lawsuit.