Despite the constraints, there was an increase in sea safety and trade facilitation in the maritime sector in the first quarter of the year, writes WAOLUKEMI DAUDA in this review. THERE is a ray of hope in the maritime sector. Despite the inconsistency of government policy on trade, decaying port infrastructure, inadequate finance, inefficiencies and harsh practices, there was an improvement in policing the nation’s territorial waters, trade facilitation, especially non-oil exports, in the first half of the year. Also, there was smooth navigation of vessels as the country recorded zero piracy attack in the period under review, leading to more cargo inflows and revenue generation. Regardless of the poor dock infrastructure, sluggish turnaround time of vessels, strike by Customs agents over Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) and long cargo dwell time, experts said the seaports performed well. For instance, at the Lagos Port Complex, Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) facilitated the exportation of non-oil commodities with about 2.5 million metric tonnes above the 540 metric tonnes recorded in the corresponding period of last year. The service said the Free on Board (FoB) value of the exports, which included steel bars, agricultural and mineral products, also rose from $1.6 million last year to $138 million this year, because of the Federal Government’s policy and export incentive schemes to boost export trade. At the Onne Port Command, the service processed 876,775.60 metric tonnes with $495,384,221.99 FoB value translating to N203.97 billion and Nigeria Export Supervision Scheme (NESS) value of N1. 07 billion were processed. The exports were over 150 per cent increase in value to what was recorded in the first half of last year. The agencies took some steps to improve their activities during the period, following the support from the global community to create a conducive environment in the Gulf of Guinea (GoG).    NIMASA Also, to boost safe ships’ navigation, the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) Director-General, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, pledged to deploy a sonar imagery system in establishing any obstacles on the seabeds. He said Nigeria signed an Exchange of Note (E/N) and the Japanese Government for an Economic and Social Development Programme are to acquire a $2.78 million high-speed boat for security. NIMASA and Nigerian Navy (NN) also reiterated their commitment to the fight against piracy and oil theft in the maritime domains and the GoG. The fight, the two agencies of the Federal Government said, became necessary to keep the gains recorded in the last two years and solidify the security status. Addressing stakeholders from various countries in Abuja, during the fifth plenary of the GoG Maritime Collaboration Forum (MCF), Jamoh called for more action on the legal framework to make the Shared Awareness and Deconfliction (SHADE) Initiative successful. SHADE was established by Nigeria and 22 countries of the ICC last July, to implement more effective counter-piracy cooperation between Navies, regional and international, as well as the shipping industry and reporting centres of the Yaounde Code of Conduct. SHADE, it was learnt, would ensure an efficient collaboration on maritime security improvement within the GoG and offer a platform for member nations and other partners to address piracy. Jamoh said their achievements were based on the partnership among NIMASA, the Nigerian Navy and other regional bodies. Addressing reporters at Transcorp Hilton venue of the event, Jamoh said: “No one can easily forget the frequent reports of attacks on ships and the kidnapping of seafarers in the Gulf of Guinea in 2019 and 2020 when they reached their peak and the attendant negative economic effect on the seaborne trade in the region.   NPA The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) has resolved to provide tariff reliefs to vessels that may patronise Calabar Port. According to its Managing Director, Mohammed Bello-Koko, importers patronising neighbouring ports due to the challenges faced by the Calabar Port must be brought back, noting that Calabar Port has been revitalised as a vessel berthed at the Ecomarine Terminal where it discharged over 200 trucks and equipment. He stated that tug boats and other marine equipment that were absent in the port would soon arrive. The Federal Government is also considering the construction of the Tin Can Island Port in Lagos, which has become weak due to its age, the former Minister of State for Transportation, Senator Gbemisola Saraki, said in Lagos. She spoke during her tour of the Lagos Port complexes in Lagos, stressing that there was the need for the government to modernise the two ports to berth modern vessels. NPA had budgeted over N300 billion for the reconstruction.The minister reaffirmed the position of the management of the NPA for the reconstruction of Quay walls. She said: “We cannot build on a weak foundation. It is vital that we get these two very important ports modernised and ready to berth modern vessels.The state of the ports shows decades of neglect but it’s better late than never.” The minister’s position is in harmony with that of the Managing Director of NPA, Mr Mohammed Bello-Koko, who had raised concern over the poor state of the port complex and allayed the fears of stakeholders as the Authority is already at completion stages of funding options to save the port from imminent collapse. The options, according to Koko, include talks with multilateral funding institutions and the possibility of the Authority using a percentage of the revenue or transfers to CRF to fund the reconstruction. He said: “Although the NPA had over the years been undertaking remedial works on the quays, the time has come for a holistic reconstruction and the Authority is working with the Federal Ministry of Transportation on the most prudent funding option. “We are on the verge of concluding discussions with multilateral funding agencies to fund the reconstruction. The other option is to go to the government to request that the NPA be allowed to use a certain percentage of its revenue which is transferred to the consolidated revenue fund (CRF) on yearly basis to fund the reconstruction. We transfer about N60 billion a year and we can use about 50 per cent of that to repair Tin Can. Another option is to do hybrid funding where NPA funds part and multilateral agencies fund the rest.” Lekki Port receives biggest vessel NPA berthed the first and biggest vessel at the Lekki Deep Sea Port in Lagos, as part of its efforts to place Nigeria on the global list of countries with Deep Seaports and attain the regional maritime hub status.This was in preparation of the port for operation before year end. NPA Managing Director Mohammed Bello-Koko, who was at the reception of the vessel with other senior officials, expressed happiness for the safe arrival of the vessel laden with three Super Post-Panamax state-of-the-art Ship to Shore (STS) Cranes and 10 Rubber Tyred Gantries (RTG). The vessel named ZHEN HUA 28 owned by Shanghai Zhenhua Port Machinery in Hong Kong is expected to complement the expected commencement of port operations at the Lekki Deep seaport to boost the economy and generate employment.   ‘How NPA, NIMASA can achieve deep decarbonisation’     Why Customs needs to retain more than 7%     X-raying waterways wrecks’ removal   Bello-Koko said the arrival of the vessel with modern port equipment was a milestone for the country to become the regional maritime hub. He expressed appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari, the Federal and Lagos State Government, the Tolaram Group, the China Harbour, and other promoters of the port for supporting the Lekki Deep Sea Port in making the arrival of the vessel possible.   NIWA Onitsha River Port was concessioned by the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) to generate over N23 billion to the Federal Government in 30 years. Saraki, who inaugurated the port, said during the signing of an agreement between the Federal Government and Universal Elysium Consortium Limited on the concession, that the river port would ensure that the 60 per cent of cargoes, which go through Onne Port in Rivers State, would be ferried to Onitsha. NIWA pledged to make 10,000km-waterways navigable yearly. Buhari also moved Mu’azu Jaji-Sambo from the Ministry of Power to the Ministry of Transportation as Minister.   Shipper Council At the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC), its Executive Secretary, Emmanuel Jime, explained why they could not sanction erring firms over non-refund of container deposits to importers. He noted:  “I cannot remember in the time that I have been the ES of NSC that anyone has lodged a complaint about a container deposit claim that we have found to be in breach of the current container deposit regime and we have not attended to that complaint. “We have a complaint unit. When you present facts to the complaint unit and we do our investigations and find out that there is a breach of the due process, of course, we will actually apply sanctions where necessary. You can’t apply sanctions holistically; it has to arise out of a complaint that somebody has laid before the Shippers Council’s Complaint Unit.”    NCS Based on complaints, strikes and anger, the House of Representatives Committee on Customs and Excise called on the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) to streamline VIN, which is causing friction between customs and stakeholders. The Chairman of the committee, Leke Abejide, has during the oversight visit to the various commands under Zone A, Lagos, observed that there was an impasse over the VIN. Also in the period, the Federal Executive Council  ratified Mr. President’s approval for the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) for a 20-year period to Messers E. Customs HC Project Limited as a concessionaire for the delivery of customs modernisation project. Importers of low-cost vehicles may have also been pushed out of business by the new regime of duty being paid at the ports to Customs. The duty has gone up by a minimum of 120 per cent on vehicles manufactured before 2013. For instance, a pre-2013 vehicle on which about N500,000 was paid as duty, now attracts between N1 million and N1.3 million. Officials said the government was protecting Nigeria from becoming a dumping ground for “over-aged” vehicles by implementing the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) for the valuation of imported vehicles. Common among such vehicles are the “old” models of  Golf, Toyota Corolla and Toyota Matrix. Some of the ‘used’ vehicles, if not cleared within a stipulated period, may also be declared as illegal imports and seized by the Customs. An importer, Mr. Fola Balogun, said the introduction of VIN for vehicle clearance was an indirect way by the government to phase out older vehicles as the age limit of recognised vehicles is now 2013. Balogun said owners of vehicles below the 2013 model were being forced by the government to pay 2013 duties before they could move their vehicles out of the port. Chairman, National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), Ports & Terminal Chapter, George Okafor, said: “The challenges are that cars from the 2012 model and downwards are still paying the duty of the 2013 model. The ones that are cheaper are even the duty we pay on the 2013 model. If you bring in a car whose year is lower than 2013, you will be asked to pay for 2013. “Cars lower than 2013 will pay the duty for a 2013 model, which makes the payment higher on vehicles that are below the 2013 model that are supposed to be seized by the service. The NCS spokesman said: “The system is even trying to assist them. What the law says is that such a vehicle should be seized. That is the law. The law is very clear on that. “The system is only trying to be good to them if it asks them to pay the duty of the 2013 model on the 2006 model.  If they are complaining, they are just implicating themselves.”   He added that some of the non-standard vehicles – vehicles without 17-digit chassis number, like Mercedes Benz, some ML, and some X-Class that were not captured on the VIN platform which had made payment of duty on them cumbersome for some of the importers and clearing agents have been addressed by the management of the service. The Nation checks outlined a seven-step process on how to use VIN by importers and clearing agents. These include: * The importer or clearing agent is expected to input the VIN of the vehicles to be cleared using 000. The VIN Valuation Service will then decode the VIN to get the information of the vehicle the importer of his agent intends to clear from the port; * If the VIN of the vehicle is not found because of the year of the vehicle or country of origin, the system will automatically display an error message; * At that stage, the importer of the clearing agent is required to print the error message and apply to the Customs Area Controller (CAC) at the port terminal for approval of the use of the Non-Standard VIN procedure code.   Experts react Experts said there is an urgent need on the side of the Federal Government and the regulatory agencies to sustain  the attention in the sector and seek the support of the international communities in the remaining half year to boost activities.