The National Peace Committee (NPC) has called on the electorate, especially youths, to be present themselves as ambassadors of peace, and not as pawns for thuggery and violence. A statement yesterday by the Chairman, Gen. Abdulsalam Abubakar (rtd), noted that the election was a time to build on democratic gains, and so urged the people to ‘come out enmasse, exercising their civic rights to vote without fear of violence, and with the understanding that the structures for growth are dependent on peace’. It reads: “At the heart of our democratic society is the opportunity for the citizens to choose those who will lead them. The Osun State governorship election offers yet another opportunity to consolidate the gains recorded during the Ekiti State governorship election of June 2022, and to further assess our preparedness for the 2023 general elections.   Why I selected Shettima as running mate, by Tinubu     Oyetola to Adeleke: your mandate was not stolen     Obi-dient tyrants?   “In particular, we call on our youths to make and present themselves as ambassadors of peace, and not as pawns used for thuggery and violence. As youths, you retain the hope and future of Osun State and Nigeria at large when you support the democratic process. Your willingness to vote even during times of heightened insecurity reflects the acceptance of democracy as the most appropriate form of governance for Nigeria. “We are aware that the contestants in the elections are running robust campaigns. These pre-election activities have at several times been characterised by vile comments, politics of blame, heated debates, and allegations of political thuggery. Elections should and must be devoid of utterances which stir up hate and instigate violent acts, monetisation of the process, but rather follow the rudiments of democracy, which is the rule of law and acknowledging the rights of every citizen. “As such, we have continued in our engagements with the candidates and political parties, to reiterate and call on them to ensure they conduct themselves with civility and patriotism, adhering to due process and not self-help. We urge that contestants approach the elections in a true spirit of sportsmanship…” The NPC hereby wishes to announce that a peace accord will be signed by the various political parties and stakeholders on July 13 in Osogbo.