Cristiano Ronaldo has returned to the fold at Manchester United amid ongoing questions about how long he will be sticking around and whether a transfer could be put in place before the next deadline passes. The Portuguese superstar was left out of Erik ten Hag’s tour party for friendly dates in Asia and Australia, with an extended summer break granted to him due to family issues. Speculation has continued to rage in his absence as to whether ties with the Red Devils could be severed for a second time, with the five-time Ballon d’Or winner eager to compete on a Champions League stage and fight for major silverware in 2022-23 at 37 years of age. Ronaldo is due to hold talks with United regarding his future after returning to the club’s training ground on Tuesday. He arrived at Carrington alongside agent Jorge Mendes, with discussions set to be held regarding the direction in which all parties wish to head. Legendary former Red Devils boss Sir Alex Ferguson – who first signed Ronaldo back in 2003 – also appears set to form part of those meetings having arrived at the Red Devils’ training base at the same time as an all-time great.   Oregon 22: ‘Nearly girl’ Amusan proud of pole…     NWFL rejects Club Owners Association’s unverified…     Buhari hails Amusan, Brume  over Oregon 2022  feats   Ronaldo, who agreed a two-year contract when returning to Old Trafford in the summer of 2021, flew back to England on Monday having previously informed United of his desire to move on if a suitable offer arrived. United have maintained throughout a distracting saga that they have no intention of parting with a man that registered 24 goals for them in a testing 2021-22 campaign for all concerned. New boss Erik ten Hag has said of the rumours raging around Ronaldo: “I am well informed, he also has also an option (of another year). “Yes (he could stay beyond this season), but to be honest, of course, I have signed here for three years, but in football it’s short-term as well. We have to win from the start. So I don’t look that far ahead. “I have a strategy, it’s a process, it takes time but in the end we have to make sure from the outset there is a winning team.” Goal