At a time the world economy is suffering a lot of anguish as a result of credit crunch and related headwinds, cooperatives offer a way forward to manage such economic uncertainties, Dr Lola Akande, Commissioner, Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives (MCIC) has said. She gave this assurance while addressing a press briefing to declare a week-long celebration for the Lagos 2022 International Day of Cooperatives (IDC) with the theme: “Cooperatives Build a Better World.” The event, which commemorates the IDC 100th celebration, was organised by the ministry alongside the Lagos State Cooperative Federation (LASCOFED). According to the commissioner, the state government recognises the significance of cooperatives, as associations and enterprises through which citizens could effectively improve their lives while contributing to the economic, social, cultural and political advancement of their communities and the state at large. “As a government, we seek to create an environment in which cooperative societies can participate on an equal footing with other forms of enterprise and develop an effective partnership to achieve their respective goals,” she said. The commissioner said that in furtherance of the robust partnership and commitment of the Lagos State government, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu signed the State Cooperative Societies Bill, on Feb. 7. This, she said, made it easier for cooperative societies to contribute positively to improving the lives of their members and the communities in which they operate.   Economy quakes under biting inflation     Business, consumers groan as inflation wreaks havoc     How CBN is fighting inflation   “Government recognises that the cooperative movement is highly democratic, locally autonomous but internationally integrated. “In line with the agenda of this administration, making Lagos a 21st century state will be implemented through promotion of sustainable commercial and industrial growth. “There will also be improved business support policies and provision of critical infrastructure for a conducive business environment. “Consequently, a robust partnership between the Lagos State Government and Cooperative Movement is germane to the growth of the sector,” she said. The commissioner said that given the important contributions of the cooperative movement to education, there existed the Lagos State Cooperative College available for educational development at Agege. She said its curriculum was structured to cater for the overall training needs of all cooperators with courses like Cooperative Economics and Management, Microfinance and Enterprise Development; both accredited by the National Board of Technical Education. The activities include the commissioning of a community project in Alimosho, Ogba and Agege, Jumaat Service at the Alausa Central Mosque, with sporting activities and thanksgiving.