Experts have stressed the need to tackle drug abuse among students and youths. According to them, it is a global problem which is the root of other social vices.Therefore, they urged students and the youth  to desist from using hard  drugs. They spoke at a seminar organised by Forthman Educational Foundation, in conjunction with American Corner Ikeja in Lagos. The experts included Director of Education, Office of the Special Adviser on Education, Lagos State, Mrs.Sunmon Adepeju; Mrs. Etido Mbre of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA); Mr.Chibuzor Onyilimba, Education Consultant, Gryn Index Initiative;  comedian and NDLEA Ambassador Owen Osemwengie (Owen Gee) and Dr.Ope Wemi -Jones, founder, Customer Focused Company. The seminar entitled: “Addressing drug challenges in health and humanitarian crisis,” was aimed at  commemorating the International Day for Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. Founder of the Foundation, Mr. Emmanuel Uhuoma Ohore explained that it was imperative to continue to sensitise students and youths on the dangers of hard substances. Ohore said the loss of his friend as result of Tramadol use in the university necessitated the yearly seminar on drug abuse. He said: “Due to the increase in the use of hard substances among youths, especially students  and an experience I had where I  lost my friend on campus due to the use of Tramadol.We at Forthman Educational Foundation  continue to  sensitise youths on the dangers and  after -effects of hard-substances.”   ASUU strike: Students, parents in dilemma over rent renewal     Tackling pelvic inflammatory disease     ‘We want a leader that ‘ll reposition…   Mbre noted that drug/substance abuse was one of the biggest social problems facing humanity today and the cause of insecurity rocking the nation. She said the NDLEA was committed to tackling it headlong. “We are determined to reduce supply of   narcotic and psychotropic substances to the minimum. That’s why you see us as airports and sea ports to check and make sure people are not supplying it,” she said. Osemwengie  urged  youths and students to avoid hard drugs. He advised them to choose their friends wisely and not move with friends who would influence them negatively. Wemi-Jones stressed the need for parental involvement. She advised students to seek good mentors and counsellors and also be comfortable to speak with their parents when the occasion demands. Onyilimba noted that it was important to understand young people to mentor them to achieve their goals. ” When you understand them,  you will be able to shape their lives. You don’t just push instructions. Gone are those days when things are done differently, you need to listen to them speak. If not, you will have issues and won’t  understand them,” he said.