The 72-day journey of Big Brother Naija Level Up session has begun with the first leg of the double launch/opening show on Saturday. The first 12 Housemates have been unveiled after the host, Ebuka Obi Uchedu welcomed a live studio audience back and viewers across Nigeria and outside the shores to another season. Here are the first 12 Housemates for the current edition. 1. Groovy Name: Henry Olisaemeka State: Anambra Sex: Male Dynamism, drama, creativity, and different. I have an infectious vibe and excellent communication skills. Single 2. Beauty  Name: Etstanyi Tukura State: Taraba State Sex: Female A lawyer, ex beauty queen, very straightforward, a great cook, a lover and fighter. I don’t love at first sight. 3. Khalid Ismail Name: Khalid State: Plateau Sex: Male I have good communication skills, I am a skateboarder, boxer and artist. Doesn’t believe in love at first sight and very excited to be on the show. Single and not searching. 4. Ilebaye Name: Ilebaye State: Kogi state Sex: Female I love drama, my name is unique nd I don’t believe in love at first sight. I love drama and I can be a fighter and lover. 5. Cyph Name: Mbekete Bright State: Imo Sex: Male I believe in love at first time but not every time, I will bring drama to the show, I am single and will mingle with all the female housemates. 6. Amaka Name: Chiamaka Crystal Mbah State: Anambra   Economy quakes under biting inflation     Business, consumers groan as inflation wreaks havoc     How CBN is fighting inflation   Sex: Female I am both a lover and fighter. I put in a lot to get into the show and I will put everything to make it count. I am super excited, I am going to disappoint everyone that thinks a man will win this season. 7. Kess Name: Kessiana State: Delta Sex: Male I am 28-year-old guy who is married. A fighter, not a lover and do not believe in love at first sight. I am leaving everything behind to have fun and when I get back home, we will take it from where I stopped. 8. Daniella Name: Daniella Peters State: Cross Rivers Sex: Female Daniella says she can be sensitive, petty but doesn’t do drama. I am a poet, I will be bring love and pure energy, I am creative and sincere, jack of all trade and master of some. The poet has a twin brother. 9. Pharmsavi Name: Saviour Akpan Ikin State: Akwa Ibom Sex: Male I am here to show my passion for acting and show myself to the world. I am the life of the party. I am not much of a foodie but I enjoy eating and eating. I don’t believe in love at first sight. 10. Phyna Name: Josephina Otabor State: Edo Sex: Female I am here on the show to make a difference, I am brining something that has never been seen, I hate gossip, I am a fighter, I don’t love at first sight. 11. Bryann Name: Bryan State: Imo Sex: Male I do not love at first sight and I am confident. I make music and movies. I am single and viewers should find out if I am ready to mingle. 12. Christy Name: Odumo Christiana State: Ondo Sex: Female I don’t love at first sight and I love sarcasm. I will be bringing everything original, and vibes.