The authorities of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) have confirmed the authenticity of a leaked memo generating dusts on alleged fresh plots by the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) to attack more locations in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory. The Director of Public Relations of the Corps, Olusola Odumosu, who confirmed that the memo was real, told The Nation that it was unfortunate that such a security document could be leaked. He said:”It is an intelligent report from the office of the Commandant, NSCDC FCT Command, addressed to the FCTA authority for necessary action to avert the impending attack. “It was leaked by unknown people unfortunately. “Security reports are crucial to ensuring proactive steps are taken to safeguard lives and property.” There was an alarm raised by the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja branch of the NSCDC in the memo to the Permanent Secretary of the FCT on plans by ISWAP to attack some communities, especially Christians in the city. The alarm came on the heels of the attacks on the Kuje Medium Custodial Centre, Abuja by Boko Haram insurgents. The memo dated July 8, 2022 was signed by Peter Maigari, the FCT Commander of the Corps. However, the memo got leaked, creating panic and anxiety in some quarters.   Ganduje frees 90 inmates in celebration of Sallah     Nigeria under siege of terrorists, bandits – ACF     Nigeria faring better under Buhari – Presidency   ISWAP claimed credit for the attack on the custodial centre leading to the death of four persons and with 16 others injured. During the attack, 64 members of Boko Haram were freed by the terrorists. In the letter addressed to the Permanent Secretary of the FCT Administration by the FCT Command of the NSCDC byMaigari, the Corps alerted of renewed threats of attacks by the ISWAP terrorists on targets in Abuja with special focus on Christians. Titled: “Renewed threat of attack by ISWAP,” the letter said: “Certified intelligence reveals that members of the decimated terrorist group ISWAP have concluded plans to launch more coordinated and spontaneous attacks on selected targets within the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and had declared war against Christians in Nigeria. “Intelligence abounds that ISWAP terrorist group has claimed responsibilities of the Tuesday July 5, 2022 attack on Kuje Medium Security Custodial Centre, releasing their adherent members. “The foregoing is to enable them hibernate in targeted communities (FCT) and re-strategise for further terrorist activities, especially on soft targets to keep the agenda of the group alive to the public. “Taking into consideration the recent terrorist attack on Kuje medium security custodial centre good two hours without any security resistance indicated their readiness to carry out more coordinated attacks in selected cities/towns, security formations, schools, and worship centres in FCT, hence the released of their members for more formidable squad to achieved their dastardly act.” The NSCDC recommended that “Against this backdrop, it is advised that counter measures be emplaced, and there is need to review existing security measures around such targets and other sensitive facilities with security formations, in FCT to frustrate the planned attack. This report is submitted for your information and necessary action.”