The Federal Government has restated its commitment towards skills acquisition for the youths. Minister of Education Adamu Adamu made the commitment at a two-day workshop on Innovation Development and Effectiveness in the Acquisition of Skills (IDEAS) Project in Ekiti State. The two-day workshop had officers from the six participating state of Benue, Edo, Abia, Gombe, Kano and Ekiti. Adamu, who was represented by the Director, Technology and Science Education (DTSE), Elizabeth Adedigba, reiterated the importance of monitoring and evaluation towards achieving the required objective of the project. He stressed that the training workshop provided Monitoring & Evaluation Officers the opportunity to better their capacity to effectively implement monitoring & evaluation activities across all the four project components.   Gbajabiamila inaugurates ICT Centre at Birch Freeman High…     ‘Plans underway to construct 18 mega schools in Northeast’     Teach For Nigeria launches Incubation Hub Programme   In a statement by the ministry’s Director of Press and Public Relations, Ben Goong, the minister emphasised that the training was meant to achieve the aim of strengthening, monitoring and evaluation capacity in the management of IDEAS Project. Ekiti State Commissioner for Education Dr. Kofoworola Adeyire, who represented by Chairman of the state Board for Technical and Vocational Education Olukayode Babade, commended the Federal Ministry of Education and the World Bank for organising the workshop in the state. Babade lauded the World Bank for the recent fund mobilisation released to benefitting states and the attendant clearance of the Institutional Development plans of Technical Colleges in Ekiti State. She also appreciated the endorsement of the grant agreement forms for benefitting technical colleges. According to her, training of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) officers is key to the successful implementation of the projects, which would undoubtedly enhance the judicious use of the project fund, better project tracking and consistent attainment of project development objectives. She advised the monitoring and evaluation officers to avail themselves of this opportunity to tap adequate knowledge that would make them perform optimally and display dexterity in their project bits, adding that this is the only way the project objectives could be met.