Winners have emerged at this year’s cancer advocacy and awareness essay competition organised by Patela Care Foundation (PCF) for senior secondary school students in Nigeria. A statement by the co-founders — Dr. Foluke Sarimiye and Dr. Tinuke Olagunju, explained that this year’s competition — CAANEC 2022 — was a competitive process, and students across the country participated in exercise. The annual competition, according to the co-founders, aims to promote excellence in health education, particularly in the field of cancer control which involves; awareness, advocacy, prevention, diagnosis, treatment, survivorship, psycho social support and end-of-life care. At the end of the exercise, Miss Temiloluwa Adebayo of The Vale College, Ibadan emerged winner.   Adamu: JAMB remits N29b to Consolidated Revenue Fund     NUC, NOUN train VCs, others on effective governance     Enugu Assembly to partner relevant agencies to improve…   While Miss Divine Oluchi Nkwocha of Government Secondary School Zuba, Abuja and Master Michael Durowaiye of All Souls High School, Ibadan emerged as first and second runners-up respectively. Winners were awarded with medals and cash prizes. Every participant got a certificate of participation and were also be enrolled in the CAANEC young cancer control advocates and ambassadors follow-up program. Another highlights of this year’s competition was the special recognition award for Master Salvation Oyama who participated in the exercise despite being visually-impaired. Oyama, and his mother Mrs. Christiana alongside Oyama’s school principal Samuel Okpe commended the foundation, and also spoke about their participation at this year’s event. The Board of Directors of Patela Care Foundation acknowledge and appreciate Almighty GOD for the opportunity to serve in this capacity. A special thank you to our partners, our friends, the judges, the secondary education boards, the school principals , the teachers, the students, The Nigerian Cancer Society (NCS), The Association of Radiation and Clinical Oncologists Of Nigeria (ARCON),. The Psycho Oncology Society of Nigeria’ (POSON), Dr Ajibike Odunuga, Dr Jummai Jimeta,-Tuko, Dr Michael Abiodun Adeyemi, Dr Bolaji Salako, Dr Shakirat Ibitoye, Ms Kemi Adekanye of Okapi Children Cancer Foundation, Mary Hanson, Ms Olufunke Babalola, Mrs Alex Ogbonna Olufemi, Mr Mayokun Adeniji ,Mrs Banke Adebayo Adedamola, Mr Tope Omojokun, Dr Daniel Ayo, Prof Biobele Brown, Prof Oladapo Campbell, Dr Toyin Olagunju, Dr Tarela Sarimiye and the Patela Care Team who helped make this a reality. We could not have done this without you. We will keep working together to achieve greater feats in reducing the burden of cancer significantly.