The contest for the governorship seat in Osun State has become a two horse race with incumbent Governor Gboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Senator Ademola Adeleke of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as undisputable frontrunners. ‘DARE ODUFOWOKAN, ASSISTANT EDITOR, reports on their chances and the factors that will determine the outcome of next Saturday’s poll.  According to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), a total of 1,955,657 registered voters would participate in the Osun State governorship election next Saturday. The commission’s National Commissioner in charge of Information and Voter Education, Festus Okoye, said this at a dialogue with the media during the week in Osogbo, the state capital. He stated that 15 political parties would participate in the election in the 30 local government areas of the state. Speaking on the commission’s preparedness, Okoye said the Bimodal Accreditation System (BVAS) would be used for authentication and verification of voters. He also said the election would be conducted within the ambit of the constitution, Electoral Act, INEC’s regulations and guidelines. “We have the power to do what is right and we will put everything in place to do that,” he promised. With INEC saying it is ready to conduct the July 16 governorship election, the stage is set for what many analysts have predicted will be an interesting contest going by some developments in the build up to the poll. The commission had released what it called the final list of 15 governorship candidates and their running mates, eligible for the exercise. Three political parties, Action Alliance (AA), All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and African Democratic Congress (ADC) were disqualified for not following the guidelines. Featured prominently on the list are the names of incumbent Governor Gboyega Oyetola and his deputy, Benedict Alabi for the APC. Also cleared is the PDP candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke as well as his running mate, Kola Adegboyega Adewusi. Other names on the list are former PDP guber aspirant, Akinade Ogunbiyi as Accord Party candidate with Jimoh Adekunle as his running mate and former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yusuf Lasun for the Labour Party (LP) with Adeola Atanda as his deputy governorship candidate. Others on the are Awojide Segun and Fakiyesi Gideon for AAC, Kehinde Atanda and Agbaje Claret for ADP, Awoyemi Lukuman and Akinloye Adesola for APM, Adebayo Elisha and Akinpelu Hezekiah for APP, Adeleke Adedapo and Lateef Adenike for BP, Rasaq Saliu and Olatunbosun Olusolape for New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Abede Samuel and Amoo Omolara for NRM, Ayowole Adedeji and Olowu Aiyedun for Peoples Redemtion Party (PRP), Omigbodun Akinrinola and Oni Adesoye for Social Democratic Party (SDP), Ademola Adeseye and Stella Adeagbo for YPP and Adesuyi Olufemi with his running mate, Fakolade Kemi for Zenith Labour Party (ZLP). The list released by INEC shows a crowded race, but observers insist the contest is mainly between the ruling APC and the leading opposition party, PDP, going by the events of the last few weeks across the state. While most commentators agree that there are now three popular political parties in Osun – namely APC, PDP and Accord, majority of them says Ogunbiyi is not a strong contender for the governorship seat in spite of his efforts to popularize the Accord Party across the state in such a short time after dumping the PDP and joining the little known party. The development appears to be a repeat of the 2018 governorship election that saw APC and PDP running neck and neck till the very last minute of the race. It took a re-run election to declare Oyetola as the eventual winner. The governor is facing the same opponent, Senator Adeleke, in Saturday’s election, setting the stage for what many have described as a rematch between the duo. In spite of the initial hue and cry that greeted his defection to Labour Party (LP), not many people appear to see Lasun as a contender in the race as his campaign had barely been noticed ahead of Saturday’s election. While not much was heard from most of the other eleven political parties with candidates in the race, APC and PDP went round the state to sell their manifestoes to the electorate and curry their votes ahead of the election. In their bid to outdo one another, supporters of the two leading political parties also clashed on some occasion at various places across the state leading to concerns over possible outbreak of violence before, during and after the election. But security agencies have confirmed their readiness to forestall any breach of peace.   THE CONTENDERS Speaking on the preparations of the political parties for the election, Dr. Jadesola AbdulYekeen, Osun State Coordinator of Committee for Democracy and Justice (CfDJ), said most of parties haven’t shown signs of seriousness. “It is unfortunate that we still have the same situation that leaves the people with not much of a choice in deciding who leads them. Aside from APC and PDP, no other party has bothered to seriously campaign for votes. The Accord Party tried in some parts of the state but it was still the show of the two leading parties,” she said. Several other analysts toed her path, predicting that the pendulum of victory looks set to swing the way of either Oyetola of APC or Adeleke of PDP, going by their preparations for the electoral contest. “For several weeks, the people of Osun waited for the other political parties to come to them with their campaigns and manifestoes. But they were not forthcoming. The implication is that the people are left to choose between APC and PDP as usual,” Seeni Peters of the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), an accredited monitor for the election, said. Analysts, however, added that the race between the two leading political parties will not be an easy one as some factors seem poised to determine who carries the day at the end of voting. Checks by The Nation revealed that the two political parties as well as their candidates have known strongholds across the state. This is expected to rub off on their performances next Saturday. Consequently, they are making spirited efforts to break into their opponents strongholds while working hard to retain their own strong bases. “The battle will be waged till the very last moment between PDP and APC. Each one currently believes they are good for victory,” AbdulYekeen said. Expectedly, factors including the popularity of the political party, acceptability of the candidate, post primary election fence-mending, among other issues, will determine the performance of the parties and their candidates on July 16. Observers of the politics of the state also claimed that after the 2018 governorship election, supporters of APC and PDP began plotting for another political showdown. “It is as if some supporters of the two parties are still angry over some events that happened during the last election and they see Saturday as the day to settle these scores. “Similarly, there are those who have been disappointed by the political parties or candidate they supported back then and are now eager to work against these parties or candidates on July 16. Don’t also forget the many post primary election crises in both parties, many of them still unresolved. These issues and many other factors are welling up to affect the voting pattern of the people on Saturday. And they all add up to compound the seeming unpredictability of the rematch between Oyetola and his arch rival Adeleke as July 16 comes closer,” Peters explained. APC leaders, however, insist Oyetola remains the candidate to beat going by his performance in his first term in office. The state’s Commissioner for Works and Transport, Remi Omowaiye, expressed optimism that he will win the gubernatorial election with a landslide. According to him, it is not right to say the election will be a repeat of the 2018 contest as the ruling party will defeat its main opponent with a wide margin on the first ballot this time around. He said: “For us in APC, we have prepared well for the general election. We know where the people of Osun stand on this matter but we did not rest on our oars as politicians. Just as we prepared for the primary election as if we wanted to do a general election, we have also prepared for the general election very well. We did not take anything for granted. We reached out to even those in the opposition camps ahead of the election. We will ensure we keep having the people on our side. The governor has performed and the people are happy with him. So, I believe Oyetola will win massively this time around.” Similarly, while speaking on Wednesday at a governorship debate held in Osogbo, Oyetola said “I’m the candidate to beat any time, any day. My performance speaks for me and I don’t have sufficient time to go through it. Is it the food that has been given to the citizens of the state since April last year, is it the health, is it the support that I’m giving to the women with a micro-credit agency that has disbursed more than N4 billion? I have enough to be able to convince the people that I’m the best candidate for the job. “I’ve gone to 27 local governments out of 30 and I see jubilation and excitement. I’m going to win that election come 16th July, 2020,” he said. Oyetola said his record in office as the governor qualifies him to rule the state for another four years. Other candidates, who participated in the debate are Ogunbiyi, Yusuf and Omigbodun of SDP. Candidate of the PDP, Adeleke, was missing at the forum. That notwithstanding he insists APC will be underrating him this time around at their own peril. According to the candidate, he is in the race to win on July 16. “I am fully prepared. I’m ready on all fronts. I have been on the campaign trail for weeks now. I went round the local governments, meeting our people. The reception at the places we have been to has been marvelous. The jubilant crowds of voters are overwhelming. I am the peoples’ choice. You remember how I was rigged out in 2018. Our people are now prepared to vote for me again and defend their votes. I will win on July 16,” he said confidently. A former Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Kolapo Alimi, predicted a landslide victory for Adeleke in the forthcoming poll. He said: “In 2018, Senator Nurudeen Adeleke led in first ballot with 353 votes. In the poll holding on 16th July, he will be victorious. The margin won’t be 353, not 3,500, not 35,000, but he will win by 100,000 plus. The person the people of Osun want now is Senator Ademola Adeleke.”   GBOYEGA OYETOLA (APC) The emergence of former Lagos State Governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as APC’s presidential candidate, and the victory of the ruling party during the June 18, 2022 governorship election in Ekiti State, which was won by Abiodun Oyebanji, have boosted the confidence of APC in Osun ahead of Saturday’s election. Oyetola and his party are expected to reap from the bandwagon effect. Pundits say the emergence of Tinubu, a Yoruba man, as the presidential candidate of the ruling party is helping some undecided voters to make up their mind about voting for Oyetola and the APC on Saturday. Also, the APC is determined to win the state ahead of the 2023 presidential election. Tinubu’s involvement makes it more important for the party to win and sources told The Nation the party is not joking about securing Osun state on July 16. “The governor has performed well and he is expected to get the votes on Saturday. Beyond that, the APC is already preparing for the 2023 presidential election and we are not about to lose the states that we have already. That is why the national leadership of the party set up a powerful committee to oversee the election. We are determined to win on July 16,” our source said. Oyetola’s performance as governor in the last four years as well as his pedigree, are also working in his favour according to some analysts. His moniker ‘Ileri Oluwa’ has been reverberating all over the state and not a few observers of the politics of the state are of the opinion that the politician is set to be re-elected for another term of four years. He enjoys state support by both Osun and the federal government. His emergence as the APC candidate, though not without controversy, appears to be widely accepted going by the way the entire structure of the party in the state has mobilized for the July 16 governorship election. Born in Iragbiji, Osun State, Gboyega, the son of the current Imam of Egbeda Mosque in the town, is serving as ninth governor of the state. He was an expert in insurance before venturing into politics. He had served Crusader Insurance Company Limited as Underwriting Manager from 1987 to 1990. He was also an area manager for Leadway Insurance Company Limited from 1980 to 1987. He was employed as a Technical Controller at Alliance and General Insurance from 1990 to 1991. After leaving Alliance and General Insurance, he started his own company, Silvertrust Insurance Brokers Limited in the same year. Before being named Chief of Staff to the former Osun State Governor Rauf Aregbesola in 2011, he had been Managing Director of the company since its inception. He bagged his first degree in Insurance and Master’s degree from University of Lagos. He was also the Paragon Group’s Executive Vice Chairman and at a time, served as the CEO of Ebony Properties Limited. Before his appointment as Chief of Staff, Oyetola had been involved in politics as a member of the Alliance for Democracy (AD) and later the Action Congress (AC), then Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN). He eventually ran as the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate in the governorship election which held on September 22, 2018. This was after contesting for the party’s ticket amidst challenges from many prominent chieftains of the party like Yusuf, the then Deputy Speaker of House of Representatives, Speaker of the Osun Assembly, Nojeem Salaam, Moshood Adeoti and many others. He won the 2018 governorship election narrowly after a run-off election. He is adjudged by many observers and citizens of the state to have managed the lean resources very well. He enjoys the support of workers across the state largely because of his ability to pay salaries and other entitlements regularly since his emergence as governor. “Oyetola will win because the workers across the state will vote for him. We are not ready to go back to the era of non-payment of salaries. He has found a way of managing the resources of the state well and its shows,’ a union leader who preferred anonymity told The Nation. Speaking during the week, Oyetola said he had absolute trust in God and the people of the state to win the July 16 governorship election in the state. “Despite the paucity of funds, the state is still attending to its financial obligations especially on issue of salaries, pensions, improved security and other social amenities. This will not fail even after my re-election because that is the covenant I made with God and the masses.   STRENGTHS Being the incumbent governor is a huge plus for him and his party. The APC as ruling party is well known across the state having been in power for almost twelve years. It has structures in the nooks and crannies and its followership is second to none in Osun currently. The governor’s current position has no doubt given him ample opportunities to make contacts and build networks with the electorate ahead of the election.   BREAKING: Tinubu picks Shettima as running mate     Oyetola prays to return as Osun Gov     UPDATED: Why I stepped down as Tinubu’s running mate…   His supporters insist his achievements in the provision of infrastructure will also work for him on Saturday. “In spite of very scarce resources, the governor has constructed the following: a 120-bed ward at the State Specialist Hospital, Asubiaro, Osogbo, 30 units of doctors’ quarters, Trauma Centre, a new theatre complex, children’s ward, main laboratory, blood bank Building and surgical ward. He has renovated the Government House Clinic and the State Secretariat Staff Clinic, Abere.” “He has also constructed the Gbongan – Akoda road, Ikirun-Iragbiji road, Osogbo- Kelebe-Iragbiji road, Idi-Odan-Anaye-Araromi road, Ola Iya flyover, Ada-Igbajo township road, Ede-Ara-Ejigbo road, Moro-Yakoyo-Ipetumodu-Asipa road, Ada-Igbajo, Akindeko-Awosuru-Alekuwodo road, Osogbo-Kelebe-Iragbiji road, Ejigbo-Ara Junction-Ede road, Ikirun-Ekoende road, Aagba road, Modakeke -Famia road, among others. With all these he looks good to be re-elected,” a former Accountant-General of the state said during the week, while hoping that the people of the state will reward the governor for his good deeds. “I am not a politician, but I am praying that the best man should win,” he said. Oyetola is popular with the civil servants and artisans across the state due to his numerous workers’ friendly and people-oriented programmes. Similarly, the massive acceptance he has received from various political and community leaders during the campaigns speak volumes of his chances. Analysts say beyond being the current governor, he appears popular among the masses of the state. Pundits also claim that Oyetola and the APC’s seeming hold on some areas of the state with huge numbers of registered voters is a good portent for Saturday’s election. “There are five Local Government Areas in Osun with the highest numbers of registered voters. And past exercises have shown that these LGAs also boast of highest numbers of eventual voters during elections. APC is holding down most of these areas as its strongholds for obvious reasons. Should the party go ahead and win these convincingly, then the PDP should kiss the governorship seat goodbye once again. “Osogbo LGA has the highest number of registered voters in the state. It is a civil servant populated area and the governor has pleased the workers by ensuring regular payment of salaries. They have constantly expressed their support for him. Besides, APC controls all the available political positions in the area. With chieftains like Senator Ajibola Bashiru holding the flanks for him there, Oyetola looks good to do well here. Ife East and Ife Central LGAs are also well populated. Omisore and other APC chieftains will ensure Oyetola carries the day there. In Iwo, the open support being enjoyed by the governor is visible and Olorunda is a traditional stronghold of the APC,” an analyst claimed. The success of the party at managing the post 2023 primary election crisis is also working to the advantage of the governor ahead of the election. Party sources claim many of the party’s members at the grassroots who lost at the primary elections wanted to either dump the party or work against its candidate in the July 16 governorship election. “But the leadership of the party under Famodun moved swiftly at the prompting of the governor and doused the tension in good time. Many of the aggrieved members were pacified and they are out there working for his victory,” a party leader said. Oyetola also enjoys the tacit backing of majority of the traditional rulers of across the state. While most of them veil their endorsements of him behind non partisanship, others, like the Oluwo of Iwo and the monarch of Iragbaji, had openly thrown their weight behind the governor while urging their subjects to vote for him. In a public endorsement of the governor, Oluwo said, “Let’s work in unison to retain Oyetola and ensure the victory of Tinubu in the next year’s general elections. “As you can see; the results of the last governorship election was not too good. But I can assure you that now, it will be much better, particularly from Iwo land. We have 30 kings with 48 ruling houses with numerous chiefs. We can’t find it difficult to speak to them. I want to assure you that by the grace of God that enthroned us, you will emerge.” Sources said the support from the traditional rulers is to compensate Oyetola for seeing to the welfare of the monarchs as well as ensuring respect for the traditional institutions across the state.   WEAKNESSES The greatest headache of Oyetola and his party as Saturday beckons is the need to prove that the APC victory of 2018 wasn’t a fluke. The PDP hasn’t spared anybody the tale of how it was rigged out of the governorship race in 2018. But supporters of the APC insist the opposition party lost fair and square. Now, the ruling party will have to win on Saturday to shut the PDP up this time around. And for this to happen, the win must be a convincing one unlike the slight margin of 2018. And with the PDP vowing to turn the table on July 16, it appears like a tall order for the governor and his party. Another odd against Oyetola is the claim in some quarters that his candidature since 2018 remains a disruption of the zoning arrangement in the state. Pro zoning agitators say it was the turn of Osun West to produce the governor in 2018. Many of them still believe the seat should go to Osun West in 2022. This explains why the PDP fielded a candidate from the zone on both occasions. No doubt, the zoning agitations worked against Oyetola in 2018 and made his victory difficult. But pundits say with the governor haven spent 4 years in office, the agitation is no longer as fierce as it was four years ago. The political disagreement between the governor and his predecessor, Aregbesola is another source of concern. Some observers said with the decision of some allies of the minister to join the PDP, the election will be a tough one. As at the time of writing this report, Aregbesola is yet to rescind his opposition to Oyetola’s reelection bid. This, analysts claim, may affect the governor’s performance in some parts of the state. But chieftains of the APC say the defectors lack electoral value and cannot affect the re-election bid of the governor in any significant way. ELECTION DAY PROSPECTS Oyetola remains the front-runner in the race. His chances of winning are the brightest barring unforeseen last minute developments and surprise from his co-contestants. His current position as incumbent, the strength of his political platform, the ruling APC, as well as his achievements in the last four years combine to give him an edge in the race.   ADEMOLA ADELEKE (PDP) Adeleke was the candidate of the PDP in the 2018 governorship election. He lost to Oyetola in what was obviously a keenly contested election that was decided with a run off after a clear winner failed to emerge on the first ballot. The PDP candidate led with 353 votes before losing on the final ballot. That was not his first stint in politics. He had contested and won the Osun West senate seat following the sudden death of his elder brother, Senator Isiaka Adeleke, who held the seat. He had hoped to be given the ticket by his late brother’s party. But that was not to be, forcing the America-based budding politician to join PDP where he was handed the ticket. He went on to defeat the candidate of APC. Emerging as the candidate of the PDP for the July 16 governorship election was not an easy task for Adeleke. The crisis that trailed his victory is still raging. While Prince Dotun Babayemi is still in court challenging his candidature and wanting to be declared the authentic flagbearere of the party, Akin Ogunbiyi left for Accord Party in anger. He will be contesting against Adeleke on Saturday. So fierce was the opposition to his emergence as the candidate that all efforts to reconcile the aggrieved aspirants by the party have failed till date. The 62-year old politician was born to the family of Ayoola and Esther Adeleke in Enugu State. After primary education in Enugu and secondary education in Ede, Osun State, he left for the United States where he graduated with a Diploma in Criminology from the Jacksonville State University in 1986. Adeleke is uncle to pop star, Davido and father of another popular singer B-red. For his frequent and unplanned dancing in public after big victories or just for laughs, he earned the moniker “dancing senator”. In a build-up to the 2018 gubernatorial election, he was enmeshed in an alleged certificate forgery scandal. The PDP candidate was accused of faking his secondary school testimonial and WAEC results by his opponents. The case eventually went to court for trial as his accusers insisted he had questions to answer. But the allegations were not enough to stop him from contesting the governorship election. Before venturing into politics, Adeleke served as Pacific Holdings Limited’s group executive director from 2001 to 2016. The company belongs to his brother. From 1985 to 1988, he worked as a service contractor for Quicksilver Courier Company in Atlanta, Georgia, the United States. From 1990 to 1994, he served as vice president of Origin International LLC, a flavour and fragrance manufacturing company in Atlanta, Georgia, US. Speaking on his chances at the polls, Adeleke said the people of the state have shown the incumbent a red card ahead of the July 16 poll. He boasted that he will be announced as governor after the election on Saturday. He urged residents to make sure Oyetola does not return by supporting his gubernatorial ambition massively. “I can see fear written all over Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. This is not the time to be afraid, he should wait till election day when he will be confronted with reality,” he said.   STRENGTHS As a former senator he is well known across the state. His 2018 gubernatorial aspiration as well as his being a member of the illustrious Adeleke family of Edeland, combine to make him a popular candidate. He is also known to have a wide political structure peopled largely by leaders of the PDP in the various wards and local governments of the state. The candidate will also benefit immensely from the street credibility and state-wide popularity of his late brother, former governor Isiaka Adeleke. The opposition is hoping to improve on the feat performed by Adeleke during the governorship election in 2018 that saw him leading the candidate of the ruling party with hundreds of votes in the first ballot before being declared loser after the run-off election. But with Ogunbiyi and Accord Party putting up spirited effort, pundits are saying some traditional PDP supporters may cast their votes for the defector in protest against the treatment meted to him by PDP during the gubernatorial primary election. Another thing that may work in favour of PDP and Adeleke is the agitation in some quarters that the governorship should go to Osun West senatorial district. Supporters of power rotation say it was the turn of Osun West to produce the governor in 2018. Many of them still believe the seat should go there. They are supporting the PDP because it fielded a candidate from the zone. Analysts say Adeleke and his party will reap some votes from the activities of these agitators especially in Osun West senatorial district where the agitation is still visible. It is also left to be seen whether the PDP’s hope of benefitting from the crisis that rocked the ruling APC over the face-off between Oyetola and Aregbesola, will translate into votes. If it does as being expected following the defection of some of the former governor’s aides and allies to the PDP, then Adeleke will be the main beneficiary. While many APC supporters across the stagte are still hoping that Aregbesola will rescind his opposition to Oyetola’s re-election bid, Adeleke and PDP are praying against any form of repentance on the part of the minister ahead of Saturday’s election. Also, the PDP campaign has benefitted immensely from the activities of singer Davido. His involvement has helped his uncle to raise an army of young followers who publicly identified with his aspirations. If the young followers follow up their enthusiasm with votes on Saturday, it will go a long way to ensure the victory of the PDP candidate in the election. Many pundits also believe that the deep pocket of the Adeleke family will also ensure that Adeleke is not outspent by the ruling party before and during the election should money emerge as a factor in the contest.   WEAKNESSES A major obstacle to the chances of Adeleke is the current state of the PDP in the state. The party is balkanised more than ever before with the group loyal to Prince Babayemi still largely aggrieved and unwilling to be part of Adeleke’s effort to win the election. There is even talk that some of the senator’s critics may be cutting deals with APC ahead of the July 16 gubernatorial contest in their determination to work against the candidate of their own party. The silence of the leadership of the faction opposed to Adeleke’s candidacy as well as some prominent PDP leaders across the state since after the controversies that trailed the primary election of the party remains a source of concern to stakeholders as they warn that the many unresolved disagreements may cost Adeleke and his party some erstwhile strongholds. A leading chieftain of the party who is a member of the PDP Board of Trustees, Alhaji Shuaib Oyedokun, had openly accused Adeleke and his camp of not encouraging reconciliation with their ‘winner takes all’ attitude. Another chieftain of the party admitted the party was going into the election divided. “The inability of the party to resolve the lingering differences and bring everybody on board the campaign is a major issue that may work against us on July 16. Ogunbiyi and his supporters defected to Accord Party and Babayemi is in court till date. We lost Ayoade Adewopo to the APC in Ife. Groups loyal to numerous other aggrieved aspirants are yet to be properly pacified and integrated into the mainstream of the party ahead of the election. This is a serious source of worry,” the former National Assembly member from Osun East lamented on Thursday. Adeleke emerged the party’s candidate in controversial circumstances last March after the PDP governorship primary election held in Osogbom, the state capital with Babayemi also claiming victory from a parallel primary election conducted same day. There was heavy security presence at the two venues of the primaries, Osogbo Township Stadium where Adeleke emerged and WOCDIF, where Babayemi was affirmed and voted. While representatives of the NWC of the party, officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and serving national and state officers of the PDP witnessed Adeleke’s election, it wasn’t the same at WOCDIF, where Babayemi emerged. Some members of the elders’ caucus of the party in the state aligned with him to put together the exercise. At the end of the exercise at Osogbo Township Stadium, the Chief Returning Officer of the Osun State 2022 primary election, Deputy Governor of Bayelsa State, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, declared Adeleke winner. Ewhrudjakpo, who represented Bayelsa State Governor, Duoye Diri, said Adeleke defeated other aspirants. The matter went to court with both parties recording victories at intervals. But INEC eventually recognized Adeleke as the authentic candidate following the most current court declaration on the matter. There are still fears that an unexpected victory for Babayemi in a higher court can truncate the party’s chances in the election. Analysts also claim that unlike in 2018 when both Adeleke and Oyetola were fresh aspirants gunning to be given a chance to prove what they can do as governor, the APC candidate, with his modest achievements in office so far, is at advantage ahead of the elections. “The people have seen what Oyetola can do and they can now compare it with the performances of those before him. All they know about Adeleke are what he did as Senator as that is not enough to compare to the activities of a sitting governor. “This may work against the PDP candidate on Saturday, especially with many people expressing satisfaction with the governor. Oyetola’s performances in the areas of road construction and provision of other basic amenities across the state is being accorded a lot of attention across the state and his ability to pay regular salary means a lot to the workers. Adeleke and his party will have to do a lot of work to convince the working people of Osun state to abandon a man they have seen performing for someone who is only promising to do better,” Dr. AbdulYekeen said.   ELECTION DAY PROSPECTS Adeleke is no doubt a strong contender and he stands a good chance of emerging victorious. His political antecedents, the popularity of his party as well as the famed acceptability of his family name across the state make him a candidate to reckon with. He will surely give Oyetola and the PDP a run for their money on Saturday.