The lawmaker representing Ibadan South East Constituency 2 in Oyo Assembly Ademola Olusegun Popoola is dead. The 46-year-old died at the University College Hospital, Ibadan where he had been receiving treatment for an undisclosed ailment. He recently won a return ticket to fly the Peoples Democratic Parry’s flag in the constituency. Until his death, Popoola was the Chairman, House Committee on Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters. Confirming the development, Governor, Seyi Makinde expressed shock over the death. The Governor, who described the lawmaker’s deathas sad, painful and a huge loss to the state, commiserated with the PDP. He said: “The news of the death of my brother, Hon. Ademola Popoola, member representing Ibadan South-East II, is shocking and painful. “Hon. Popoola’s death is a huge loss to the state, the House of Assembly and the PDP, on which platform he was elected into the House. “He was a consummate lawmaker and an individual who was quite passionate about the development of the state. He gave his best efforts towards ensuring harmonious relationship between the executive and the legislature arms of the state. “As a testimony to his credential as a lawmaker who truly served his people and a loyal party man, he was rewarded with a ticket to seek re-election into the State House of Assembly in the 2023 elections.   Police arrest fleeing Kuje prison inmate in Ogun     IGP bans spy number plates nationwide     One injured, families escape death as building collapses in…   “On behalf of the Government and good people of Oyo State, I commiserate with the Oyo State House of Assembly, the PDP family and the entire Popoola family on this sad loss. “It is my prayer that God grants repose to his soul and gives everyone the fortitude to bear the loss.” Oyo Speaker Adebo Ogundoyin described Popoola’s death as a grievous and heartbreaking news. The speaker said: “The news of the death of one of the most active, vibrant and resourceful lawmakers in the 9th Oyo State House of Assembly, Hon Ademola Popoola popularly called Popson came to me and everyone in the House as a rude shock. “We are deeply saddened and grieved by this painful and untimely exit of one of us. This is unbearable. He was a patriotic, selfless and hardworking lawmaker who gave his best for the service of Oyo State House of Assembly, his constituents and indeed the entire people of Oyo State.” Ogundoyin, who said he was personally distraught on hearing of the sad departure of Popoola stated that the incident was a bitter pill to swallow for everyone in the State Assembly. “I have been visiting him in the hospital and he has been showing signs of recovery. Little did i know that i was seeing him for the last time few days ago when i went in company of some lawmakers. “He was a peace loving and easy-going gentleman who was admired by all. We just lost a bridge builder, a man of peace and a gentleman par-excellent. He will be sorely missed by everyone of us.” The Speaker noted the dedicated and selfless nature of Hon Popoola as well as his quality representation in the House as a member of the 9th Oyo State House of Assembly earned him the return ticket of the PDP in Ibadan SouthEast 2 State Constituency. “Unfortunately, Hon Popoola has bid the world goodbye at such a very tender age. He has written his name in gold in the Oyo State House of Assembly as a one who contributed immensely to lawmaking and legislative activities. We started the 9th Assembly together but alas he ended the race less than a year to the finish line. “My condolences to his entire family, his wife and children and to the good people of Ibadan SouthEast State Constituency. We are however happy that he has not died in vain. His humanitarian and political legacies live on. I also condole with the Oyo State Government and the entire PDP family in the State on this irreplaceable loss,” Ogundoyin said.