Tell us about your career growth I have moved from being a program analyst in a federal parastatal to an administrative officer, to full time HR manager and currently the chief process and operations officer at obiwezy. You are in the e-commerce sector, providing IT solutions. What inspired this line of business? My husband’s dream was to sell convenience and mine was to create the structure around any business. What challenges do you face in the sector? Price uniformity, talent wars, lack of sensitization of government agencies, scammer and impersonators, trollers, irregular government policies as we don’t know which is which…etc How have you been able to surmount them moving forward? Sticking to the best price with minimal margin, honing what we have and keep moulding them. Also, being on the right side of the law as much as possible, posting disclaimers and more sensitization to our customers from our own end, keeping up with integrity and honesty during issue resolutions, and keeping abreast with policies through our consultants. How would you rate your customer relationship services?   FCNL bags double award at Shell Leaders, Contractors CEO…     Wale Adediran receives National Productivity Order of Merits…     ‘Taxation should encourage productivity, not stifle it’   Our customer relationship could certainly be better. What distinguishes Obiwezy from other players in the industry? Integrity, customer relationship. The mantra ‘obiwezyisyourguy’ is held with high esteem. How do you develop growth strategies for your business? Deliberations on identifying value propositions, concerned areas of growth, target audience, set goals and a plan. What was your experience during the COVID-19 pandemic? It was a very revealing year. It confirmed the need for an online business, and although it was initially slow, consequently the boom came. What innovations were put in place to keep the business running? We maximized all delivery platforms either for pick up or drop offs. What lessons did the experience teach you? Once you have it available, service delivery is attainable.