Nnamdi Chinecherem Prosper and Oluwafemiayo Folashade, a senior ladies Powerlifter and the current holder of the world record for her division, supported by High Jumper Frank Edwards hoisted   Nigeria’ flag  as the Commonwealth Games officially began last night  with an opening ceremony celebrating the history and culture of the Midlands. With a mix of dancing, singing and acting, the ceremony has officially opened the games at the Alexander Stadium. It is the first time the stadium has been used during the games, after its £72 million transformation. The Prince of Wales – accompanied by The Duchess of Cornwall – represented Her Majesty The Queen and officially opened the Games. Prince Charles drove with Camilla in an Aston Martin sports car into the opening ceremony for the Commonwealth Games as the  couple entered the arena at the same time as 72 other red, white or blue cars with links to the Birmingham car industry, which formed a Union flag in the centre of Alexander Stadium.   Laporta vows to re-sign Messi for Barcelona     Amusan’s humble beginnings retold     Saints’ teammates  hails Aribo’s qualities     Malala Yousafzai addressed the crowd and said the young athletes competing at the Games are a reminder that “every child deserves the chance to reach her full potential and pursue her wildest dreams”. In a short but powerful message, the activist and author said competitors represented millions of children and “our shared hope for the future”. “Tonight, teams from 72 countries and territories join the people of Birmingham to celebrate friendship across borders,” she said. “The young athletes who will compete over the next few weeks represent millions of girls and boys across the Commonwealth – our shared hope for the future. A future where every child can go to school, where women are free to participate in society, where families can live in peace and in dignity. “Over the next two weeks when we watch the incredible athletes of the Commonwealth Games, remember that every child deserves the chance to reach her full potential and pursue her wildest dreams.”