Presidential Candidate for Social Democratic Party SDP, Prince Adewole Adebayo has decried the spate of insecurity in the country, assuring that he would address the menace within 100 days if elected. He said within 60 days in office, banditry, in any and every part of the country would have been totally wiped out. “If the people in my government are not trying to be billionaires, the issue of banditry will be over within 60 days. Terrorism is a little complex but the Boko Haram fighters can be technically chased away from Nigerian soil within 100 days, that doesn’t mean they won’t be in the region. The strength of these Boko Haram and bandits is the ability to reinforce. That reinforcement ability is what makes it look like the Nigerian armed forces are not doing anything. They have a rapid reimbursement. If it takes you three weeks operation to dislodge them from the territory, they can use seven days to recalibrate and come back. So, in my first 100 days you will be hearing Boko Haram from a long distance and the bandits, most likely will be former bandits, that is if they are alive at all”, he stated.   Economy quakes under biting inflation     Business, consumers groan as inflation wreaks havoc     How CBN is fighting inflation   Speaking at a question and answer online programme “Symfoni” Adebayo said as a potential president, his vision about where Nigeria is headed and how to get there is clear in his head as men and women of character and integrity to help with the New Nigeria he envisioned,  are already being sought. Unlike his contemporaries, Adebayo said he didn’t have the luxury of having a political godfather to smoothen his path as all of them are dead, adding that, after the Almighty God, he relies on nobody. “I am not lucky with godfatherism. Unfortunately, all my godfathers are dead. Aminu Kano, if he was alive, would have been my god father. Micheal Opara would have been another godfather. Mbonu Ojike, who said government should serve the people. He would have been my god father, if he was alive. If I had a god father I wouldn’t be running. The people that would have been god fathers are the ones running against me now,” he said.