Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate, Mr. Peter Obi, has said the comment by former Kano State Governor Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso is the reason about 100 million Nigerians are living in poverty. Kwankwaso, the presidential candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), at the weekend said he cannot be a running mate to Obi. He also said the Southeast will miss a golden opportunity if Obi refuses to be his running mate. The NNPP candidate added that the Igbo are at the bottom in Nigerian politics. Reacting in an interview on Arise TV, Obi said: “The comment by the elder brother Kwankwaso is the reason why we have 100 million Nigerians living in poverty, 18 million Nigerian children out of school and about 52 per cent of Nigerians either unemployed or underemployed. This is because rather than vote for competent leaders, we vote for incompetence due to a primitive consideration of religion and ethnicity. “Tell me, today, you can’t travel from Abuja to Kaduna by road or rail. Is it because someone from the Southeast is in charge? You can’t travel to Minna by road. Is it because someone from the Southeast is in charge?   Fed Govt: petrol scarcity will linger until full…     Kuje prison: 64 Boko Haram suspects escape after attack     Kuje: Day terrorists wreaked havoc   “Yesterday (Tuesday), we had an attack by bandits on the presidential convoy in Katsina. Is it because someone from the Southeast is in charge? “Show me where we can buy cheaper food or people are prospering because somebody from the North is in power? What we have consistently been doing in this country is that we have been hiring vehicle drivers to fly aeroplanes as pilots.” “My commitment is: let us campaign on issues to face the problems bedeviling this country. Let us deal with issues. The 2023 elections will not be based on ethnicity, religion or tribe. It will be based on issues. “We have a huge problem, and if you don’t know, this country will soon default on its debt servicing. “Schools are shut down, insecurity is everywhere. Nigeria is in coma. When you are in coma, all you want is to survive, irrespective of where the surgeon who will keep you alive comes from. “I don’t want people to vote for me because I’m from the Southeast, Southwest, Northcentral, Northeast, etc. I want people to vote for me because I have the competence.”