In the view of Dr. Muda Yusuf, Founder/Chief Executive Officer, at the Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise [CPPE], the current inflation figures as released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) not only begs the issue as such it requires urgent policy response from the highest level of government. The renowned economist while ventilating his views on the NBS report noted that according to the technical computation of the inflation by the NBS puts the June inflation figure at 18.6%, the highest in thirteen months. He was however quick to add that the reality and severity of the impact of the intense inflationary pressures over the past one year is at variance with the official inflation data. “For the basket of goods consumed by most households, prices have jumped by between 30-100% over the past one year. The same is true of businesses. The pressure of spiking inflation on household budgets has been excruciating and unbearable. Purchasing power has been massively eroded, real incomes have been depressed, and the poverty incidence has consequently worsened.” Besides, he said, “Businesses have been similarly impacted as they have been experiencing a slump in sales, turnover and profits margins amid escalating costs. The impact on small businesses is even more severe because of their limited capacity to absorb economic shocks.”   Economy quakes under biting inflation     Business, consumers groan as inflation wreaks havoc     How cooperatives can build societies, by Akande   Accordingly, he said, the spiraling inflation dynamics demands an urgent policy response at the highest level of government as the impact on citizens’ welfare is inestimable. “The effect on SMEs is troubling. There is elevated social discontent, driven by increasing joblessness and hunger.” While attempting a prognosis of the inflation crisis, Yusuf said, “The key drivers of inflation include high and increasing energy cost; worsening currency depreciation, escalating transportation cost, high import duty on intermediate products need for production and other services, illiquidity in the forex market, bottlenecks in the logistics chain, security concerns depressing agricultural output, low productivity resulting from structural challenges and weak application of technology.” This is just as he blamed the spike in inflation on the CBN’s financing of the fiscal deficit as also a major driver of inflation. “This mode of financing is referred to in some literature as inflation tax.” Therefore to address these anomalies, these key drivers would have to be addressed. Specifically, he said, “All forms of taxes and levies on the importation of petroleum products should be suspended to give a respite on the spiking energy cost.  There should also be deeper stakeholder engagements across sectors to develop an enduring strategy on the way forward.”