One of the duties of every government in a country is to provide certain facilities that will aid ease, comfort and security for its citizens. One of these numerous facilities is the pedestrian bridges. To reduce avoidable deaths on the roads, many of such bridges have been constructed on high density corridors of Lagos such as Ojota old garage, palmgrove-onipanu, 7up motorways, Ojodu-Berger, Oworonshoki, Cele, Sanya, five star, Obanikoro, Charlie boy by Gbagada, Alapere, Cele, amongst others. Sadly, these foot bridges are not being utilized by residents of the state. This sad development has triggered fears of people being hit by cars for their failure to utilize available foot bridges. On the 2nd of August, 2012, the one time Governor of Lagos State, Babatunde Raji Fashola (SAN) signed the Lagos Road Traffic Bill into law in order to ensure safety and orderly flow of traffic in the state, bearing in mind that accident rates was on the rise during his tenure. Typically, when there is a law, there should be punishment for offenders. This was clearly stated in the law, but as it is today, the enforcement level in the state is quite low. This has in turn given people confidence to flout the rules. It is no longer news that accidents sometimes occur when people choose to ignore these bridges. Several cases of oncoming vehicles on very high speed hitting people have recorded. It is also rampant to see people contending the roads with public and private vehicles, waving and pleading to cross thereby leading to congestion that sometimes elongates to miles away. Take Ojota bridge for example, even the okada riders are seen navigating their way on these highways to get to the other side of the road. All these is as a result of low or epileptic enforcement. Residents of Lagos are comfortable going against constituted rules because there’s no logistics put in place to call them to order. Some bridges have been deserted to the point that it becomes scary if a lawful citizen decides to use it as a result of the loneliness and quietness of the environment. It has become a den of thieves and hooligans. As against its original purpose, market women have turned these bridges to their point of sales. Beggars and people with various ailments have turned the place to their abode. It is even very common to see some physically challenged men, sweeping the stairs that leads to the bridges. These bridges are still in use but for wrong purposes. More people are comfortable crossing the road as it a faster means of getting to their destinations. Another reality is that, as a result of people disregarding these bridges, traffic flow is disrupted because vehicles have to wait for people crossing to pass.   Godwin Kienka: Why Nigerian sports is ‘going round in…     Onyekuru: I could stay in Galatasaray forever     Adesola Adeyemi: My experience on international runway has…   Residents of the state have given one reason or the other as to why they don’t use the bridges At night, sometimes in broad daylight, there is robbery attack and the private car owners are usually victims where their personal belongings are taken. Now, cases like this can been avoided or drastically reduced if no pedestrian is allowed to ply the roads. This happened to Rasaq Ayeola who shared his ordeal with The Nation about the incidence that happened to him last year at Oworonshoki bridge where two men approached his car, disguised as though they wanted to cross to the other side of the road but ended up robbing him at about 5:28pm on his way back from his office. In his words “if there weren’t other people crossing and causing congestion on the road, they won’t have had the courage to commit that kind of atrocity. My laptop and phones were taken.” Although, there still exist some law abiding and safety conscious citizens that still ply the bridges, but some argue that the bridge is less safer than the roads as it has become a gun point for robbery and ritual killings especially when the day is not so bright like early in the morning and late evening. This was the case of Ojomo Victor who was robbed of his belongings sometime in 2020 at the Ojodu-Berger bridge on his way to work in the morning. Since then, he vowed never to use any bridge anymore. For Chinwe Francis, a 57 year old teacher, laziness to climb the bridge makes her cross the highway. “I have never had any bad experience on bridge, I just don’t like using the stairs. By the time I get up there, I pant profusely.” As it is today, it appears that pedestrians have stylishly become their own enemies. The infrastructure put in place to guarantee security has been bastardized. It is therefore important that government take charge of the situation. Every organization/body put in place to ensure compliance should be greatly awakened. Epileptic enforcement should be discouraged. If things are done this way, there’s a high possibility that there would be a drastic reduction in deaths. Apart from this,orderliness will be the order of the day as vehicles will ply the road, and pedestrians will use the foot bridges, just as it ought to be. Although attempts have been, and are still being made, efforts should be doubled. It is also important that offenders be prosecuted. This will serve as a lesson to many likely future offenders. A lesson for one will show the seriousness and level of commitment to safeguarding citizens and making things ad they should be.