The First Vice President of the Nigeria Football Federation, Barrister Seyi Akinwunmi  has been endorsed by foremost  broadcaster Dr Danladi Bako as the best man  to lead  the beleaguered  federation. ]Bako  who served  as Senior Special Assistant to Minister of Youth & Sports Development  between 1995 and 1998 , said it is about time the NFF is populated  by people with ‘higher integrity quotient and untainted character’;  adding  there’s no other person than Akinwunmi  to lead the NFF from the  ‘present pathetic state  of our football’ given his  temperament, capacity and  credibility in the upcoming elections in September. “This is to notify the general public , stakeholders and footballers alike that after due interrogation and assessment of the state of Nigeria’s football ,I  have resolved to take a position on the future of the leadership question at the Nigerian Football Federation as the election of a new Executive Committee draws closer,”  the  former Sokoto FA Chairman noted in a  statement.   Ronaldo returns to Man Utd amid transfer saga     Oregon 22: ‘Nearly girl’ Amusan proud of pole…     NWFL rejects Club Owners Association’s unverified…   He continued: “Realizing that in the last eight  years the senior national team has not won a trophy; realizing that the progress at the age- grade national teams have been erratic ;realising that the NPFL and NNL Football matches are very poorly covered for television , indeed it’s a disgrace . “Realizing the need for transparency in the marketing and sponsorship deals at the NFF ; it has become not only necessary but imperative to headhunt , unearth and propagate a new President, Secretary and Executive Committee of the Football Federation.” Recalling the glorious  years of Nigerian football  when the likes of Air Commodore Omeruah , Air Commodore Ikazoboh and Col Abdulmumuni Aminu who were either past State Governors or Sports Ministers held sway at the football house, Bako said  the NFF must henceforth  be led  by someone with high moral standing in  the public. “In view of all issues raised above ,along with the present pathetic state  of our football , I desire a new direction , new energy , higher integrity  quotient , greater capacity and untainted character rating at the pinnacle of Nigeria’s football family,” Bako equally said. “I believe the current  1st Vice President  of the NFF  and Chair Lagos State FA , Barrister Seyi Akinwunmi fits the bill nicely and should be elected as the next President of the Nigerian Football Federation in the forthcoming elections.”