The North West All Progressives Congress(APC) caucus has backed the party’s presidential ticket Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Senator Kashim Shettima. It resolved to work for the success of the ticket in 2023. This was the outcome after a crucial meeting at Dutse, Jigawa by stakeholders in continuation of the zonal fact-finding tour by the National Vice Chairman, Salihu Lukman to States within the zone. This affirmation was contained in a statement by the Zonal Publicity Secretary of the party, Malam Musa Mailafiya Mada in Abuja on Tuesday. The statement reads: “Prominent among issues raised at the meeting is the emergence of Senator Kashim Shettima as the running mate of the Party’s Presidential Candidate Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu and how the Zone should position itself in bringing victory to the party at all levels.   Pan African Farmers Organisation appoints Nigerian CEO     Banditry: Extend security forces’ retirement age,…     BREAKING: Lagos PDP Gov candidate unveils Funke Akindele as…   “Participants resolved to work for the unity of party members and stronger commitment to mobilize Nigerians to vote to elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Sen. Kashim Shettima as the next President and Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and all candidates of the APC in the 2023 general elections.” According to the statement, the ongoing voter registration exercise was also analysed and participants submitted that “the exercise was moving extremely slow due to the inadequacy of capturing systems which results to the poor outcome recorded by the geographical zone.” Speaking at the meeting, Lukman assured that all the issues raised during the interaction will be reflected in his report at the end of the tour for proper documentation and action. Jigawa Governor Alhaji Badaru Abubakar, who was represented by his deputy and the party gubernatorial candidate, Alhaji Umar Namadi, appreciated the zonal party officials for visiting the state on a fact-finding mission. The Deputy Governor enumerated measures taken to strengthen the party in the state which he said included the establishment of a reconciliation committee saddled with the responsibility of reaching out to aggrieved party members for reconciliation.