Hon. justice Ibrahim Tanko Mohammed, (68) retired as an embattled chief justice of federation on penultime Sunday and his runner-up Justice Olukayode Ariwoola (67) was sworn-in acting CJN, on Monday. But before the retirement, the erstwhile Judge Tanko had been embroiled in a controversy between him and his brother – Judges in a petition authored by 14 other justices including the newly sworn-in acting CJN. They are: Olukayode Ariwoola (ACJN), Musa Dattijo Mohammed, Kudirat Motonmori O., Kekere-Ekun, John Inyang Okoro, Chima Centus Nweze, Amina Adamu Augie, Uwani Musa Abba-Aji, Mohammed Lawal, Helen Morenikeji Ogunwumiju, Abdul Aboki Ibrahim Sawlawa, Adamu Jauro, Tijani Abubakar and Emmanuel Agim. Now, that one of the petitioners has become a respondent, what becomes of the weighty, consequential allegations against the former CJN? Buried in the archives or under the carpet? and the business goes on as usual with Nigerian syndrome? What goes around comes around as the saying goes. Was the former CJN, Walter Onnoghen not shabbily charged of infraction by our derelict institutional framework in concert with political vendetta? While there is no perfect system in the universe, judiciary as a most important organ of government from the point of view of constitutional interpretation and construction must be circumspect, restrained and be reflectively sober. The usual hiccups pervading the Executive and legislative arms of government must be diffused from judiciary and that is why in British cannon, Judges are sacred and must like Caesar’s wife live above board. But where there are internal infractions as decoded in Judges vs CJN, what happens? Whatever be the merits and lack of it in their petition, there should better and tidier ways of handling them to sustain whatever is left in “public confidence” in our Judiciary, otherwise, one-day, Judges in Nigeria will be carrying placards to remove their leaders. So many ills have pricked Nigerian Judiciary for too long not the least backward and front in elongating and de-elongating retirement age especially for justices at the apex court! The excursion of lodging a parity with ages in western world cannot flow because of our social-economic differences including life expectancy in Africa, particularly in Nigeria where life expectancy hovers between 54 to 55. How will statutory limitation of 70 earmarked for our justices at the apex court flow? Truth be told, most of our jurists could hardly be mentally alert after 60 years. Then the charge of corruption! There has been wide clamour for financial autonomy since the beginning of this fourth republic in respect of judiciary and legislative arms of government. While there are some merits in the campaign, events at our various level of governance indicate that autonomy without adequate financial monitoring unit in the system is an invitation to financial corruption. Added to this fact is in respect of CJN, the constitutional responsibilities placed on the office is elaborately too weighty in a society that every minor lords over others as “Lord Emperor”. The facts need restating that every aspirant to the bench at either inferior or superior court of records with intention for pecuniary gains or gratification ought to not to be allowed to sit on the bench.   Godwin Kienka: Why Nigerian sports is ‘going round in…     Onyekuru: I could stay in Galatasaray forever     Adesola Adeyemi: My experience on international runway has…   A corollary to this is the recruitment of judges in our judiciary which borders so much on Nepotism, man-know-man syndrome, and show manship, Class stratification as against competence, industry and character. Must we narrow down the appointment of our CJN only to ‘seniority?’ in the hierarchy of Supreme Court justices? Can we not spread the net to catch the “big fishes” in the academic and various legal institutes? Even among the finest of the silks? Think of an Elias CJN who was fished out of University of Lagos as a Senior Lecturer to become our CJN (1972-1975) later adorned the World court as its president with lasting imprint in the citadel of Justice in Hague, Netherlands. Imagine how Late Justice Timothy Akinola Aguda would have been had he been appointed as CJN as a successor of CJN Fatai Williams as widely speculated then. He had a fantastic experience as justice of Botswana where he laid bare his attributes of industry, incorruptibility, courage, versatility and untainted administrative integrity. Justice Aguda had derived exemplary mentorship from another immortal Jurist, Judge Charles Dadi Onyeama the father of the current foreign affairs minister Geoffrey Onyeama. Dadi Onyeama as chronicled by his biographer Ikeazor Akaraiwe in his book “EAGLE ON THE BENCH” said Charles Dadi Onyeama was an exceptional judge on a number of ways. He was scholarly, pitty, independent and fair minded, incorruptible, and highly detribalized. He handed judgments based on facts and laws, regardless of social status of parties whether government or citizen including his appointors. He was not afraid like Lord Denning and our own Kayode Esho to be a lone star among panel of jurists. To this effect he was brave, impartial, and independent minded in the National Bank Enquiry, dissented in Adegbenro vs Akintola to the extent that the privy council in London gave kudos to his legal exposition and jurisprudential dexterity. He equal displayed these attributes at Hague been the first Nigerian to adorn the International Court of Justice. Beyond the routine of resignation and succession of Judge Tanko, a holistic reform of the entire judicial system along the recommendations of unpublished report of Hon Justice Kayode Esho widely applauded as the most erudite justice that ever sat on our apex court must be revisited and earnestly implemented. It was Lord Arkins in his famous obiter in 1943 that said “Amidst class of arms, laws are never silent they speak the same language in war time as in peace time” But our jurisprudence in Nigeria seems to go contrary wise of this english jurist admonition. Our jurisprudence have never been active in interpreting of law in favour of the common-man in Nigeria as against his rich counterpart. We have not been privileged to have landslide jurisprudence that guaranteed free and equitable education of all Nigerian children like in the case of Brown vs Board of Education 1347 U.S. 483 on the right to basic education. We have not had a landmark judgement from apex count guaranteed employable opportunities for our tickling unemployed population, we have not had decision guaranteeing decent housing for the citizens. We have not had judgements from our highest court granting health insurance scheme for the less privileged or the vulnerables. To average common man in Nigeria, justice seems to have taken flight from him to another domain. When do we have the replicas of Dadi Onyeama, Akinola Aguda, Kayode Esho, Andrew Otutu Obaseki, Olumuyiwa Jibowu, Karibe Whyte, Morenikeji Onalaja, Niki Tobi and others? Perhaps our jurisprudence had taken a long holiday or perhaps it is deferred to the nearest future. Resignation of Judge Tanko and the replacement of a successor in Judge Olukayode Ariwoola are mere symptoms of a pathological disease of inertia pervading the Judiciary as well as other organs of government in Nigeria. Time to reform is now!!!