The Lagos State Parks and Gardens Agency (LASPARK) plans to celebrate this year’s Tree Planting Day on Thursday. Its General Manager, Mrs. Adetoun Popoola, while unveiling the plans at her office in Ikeja, stated that July 14 is observed yearly as the Lagos State Tree Planting Day, adding that the theme for this year’s is: “In harmony with nature”. According to her, the theme is inspired by the need to take steps to build a sustainable relationship between humanity and nature. “We will continue to emphasise to the public that trees are a vital part of our natural environment and an immense contributor to human life. In addition to providing shade, trees produce oxygen and purify the air we breathe by removing harmful particles from the atmosphere. We must, therefore, learn to co-exist in harmony with nature,” she said. Mrs. Popoola added that the event would be commemorated with planting of trees across the 57 Local Governments (LGAs) and Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) of the state. She confirmed that the exercise would be kicked off by the Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Mr. Tunji Bello. She added that tree seedlings would be given to the local authorities as well as interested individuals, private organisations and NGOs at no cost to encourage them to plant in their homes, offices and communities as is the usual practice of the agency.   2023: North West APC backs Tinubu-Shettima’s ticket     Banditry: Extend security forces’ retirement age,…     BREAKING: Lagos PDP Gov candidate unveils Funke Akindele as…   “We are well aware of the importance of environmental education to children and young adults. They must understand how their decisions and daily activities affect the environment. We must also help them build the knowledge and skills necessary to address complex environmental issues, identify simple, day-to-day actions to improve the environment for a sustainable future. “We are, therefore, pleased to announce this year’s Art Competition for children aged three to 16 where we expect them to use any art form to interpret their understanding of this year’s tree planting day theme,” Mrs. Popoola added. She said each participant would receive a digital Certificate of Participation and winning artwork would be displayed at the Dr. Oluyomi Abayomi Finnih Recreational Park, Oregun. In addition, they will receive exciting prizes like tablets, smart watches and school bags. Mrs. Popoola urged parents, guardians and teachers to encourage their children and wards to participate in the competition to showcase their creativity and talent. Reiterating LASPARK’S commitment to landscape and beautify Lagos, plant and nurture trees to fight the negative effects of climate change, promote recreation and leisure through establishment of parks and gardens in the state, the General Manager admonished residents to see tree planting as a civic responsibility and be devoted to its nurturing and management, calling on everyone to partake in the forthcoming Lagos State Tree Planting Day.