The global air transport sector is still counting losses triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic. Lockdowns, travel restrictions and other measures put in place to mitigate the spread of the virus are beginning to ease out as logistics-related activities pick up for the industry’s rebound. Airport terminals deserted by passengers are beginning to achieve footfalls as airlines announce return of flights on routes hitherto suspended. In Nigeria, for instance, carriers are increasing flight frequencies on the triangular routes of Lagos-Abuja and Port Harcourt. Besides, new terminals are opening for flights to various destinations. Aside new terminals opening, old terminals, including the General Aviation Terminal (GAT), at the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Ikeja, Lagos is undergoing expansion. But, there are emerging trends in the global aviation sector on the growing adoption of technology for processing travel. Foremost industry information technology solutions provider SITA has its report on the role of digitalisation in the travel industry. SITA’s 2022 Passenger IT Insights research highlighted the demand for business and leisure travel after the pandemic, with passengers further embracing mobile and touchless technologies to make the journey as convenient and seamless as possible. The survey shows an increase in passenger use of mobile devices for booking on board the airplane, and for bag collection in the first quarter of the year, compared to the same period in 2020, while automated gates saw increases in adoption for identity control, boarding, and border control. The results reflect the accelerated digitalisation of air travel since the outbreak of the pandemic and passengers’ willingness to adopt technologies. However, health verification is a pain point that has slowed end-to-end automation. In Q1 2022, despite some uptake of technology at this stage, over half of passengers were still doing their own research on health verification requirements and manually submitting documentation. SITA’s research also finds reduced technology adoption in the early stages of the journey (check-in, bag tag, and bag drop) in favour of manual processing. Uncertainty about health requirements and travel rules has likely led travelers to seek more staff interaction when starting the journey. The survey shows that the more technology there is during travel, the happier passengers are. About 87 per cent of passengers has positive emotions about identity control, up 11 per cent from 2016; the same is true for 84 per cent  of passengers about bag collection by nine per cent These are also the areas where technology adoption has risen the most, driven by mobile and automated gates, with half of passengers now additionally receiving real-time information at bag collection on time until delivery. Asked about comfort levels with biometric identification throughout the journey, passengers scored an average of almost 7.3 out of 10 (with 10 representing most comfortable), most likely reflecting their desire for ease of travel moving forward from the pandemic. SITA’s Chief Executive Officer, David Lavorel said: “It is exciting to see demand recovering and even surpassing pre-pandemic levels, not just for leisure but also for business travel. We are seeing that the technology-driven end-to-end passenger journey is becoming a reality, as the air transport community continues to digitise its travel processes and industry operations, accelerated by the pandemic. We are also seeing that passengers are increasingly embracing mobile and touchless technologies across the journey, to make their travel as convenient and seamless as possible. The use of IT to help drive and sustain the recovery of air travel is vital today, and it is also critical to the post-pandemic digital journey of tomorrow.” As that recovery gathers pace, SITA’s Passenger IT Insights survey says that passengers intend to fly more from next year than they did prior to the pandemic, anticipating averages of 2.93 flights per passenger per year for business, and 3.90 for leisure. When weighing up whether to fly or not, the main barriers are ticket prices, health risks, and geopolitical risks.   2023: North West APC backs Tinubu-Shettima’s ticket     Banditry: Extend security forces’ retirement age,…     BREAKING: Lagos PDP Gov candidate unveils Funke Akindele as…   Passengers also consider sustainability before they choose to fly. About half of passengers would value airports and airlines putting in place new IT solutions to support sustainability such as monitoring airport environmental performance to reduce emissions and flight path optimisation to reduce fuel burn. On the airport front, this initiative has overtaken green airport infrastructure for most value since Q1 2020, suggesting all eyes are on the promises of technology to support concrete reductions to the environmental impacts of the industry. Almost all passengers would pay on average 11 per cent of their ticket price to offset carbon emissions from their flight. Asked if the air transport industry is doing enough to become more sustainable, more than half of passengers either think not, or don’t know, suggesting there is room for industry improvement in communicating sustainability initiatives and actions. Experts seek solution to challenges at ‘Sunset Airports’ Experts in the aviation sector are working on a template that would address the safety and economic implications of flights at ‘Sunset airports’. Sunset Airports are classified in aviation as aerodromes with limited operating hours fixed between 7.00 am and 6.00 pm, due to absence of airfield lighting. The experts include Chairman, Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL), Dr. Wale Babalakin; Chairman, Peace Airlines, Allen Onyema and others would constitute a panel at the forthcoming 26th annual conference of the League of Airport and Aviation Correspondents (LAAC). The event scheduled for July 28, this year has received the approval of   the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, and ground handling firms. A statement by the Secretary, Planning Committee, Mr. Albinus Chiedu, listed Capt. Musa Nuhu; the Director-General, Nigerian Civil Aviation Agency (NCAA), Lawrence Pwajok; the Acting Managing Director, Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), and Managing Director, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, among the panelists. Others include the Commissioner, Accident Investigation Bureau-Nigeria (AIB-N), Akin Olateru, and CEO, Topbrass Aviation Limited, Capt. Roland Iyayi. The conference is expected to attract over 250 professionals. Dana Air increases flight frequencies   DANA Air has introduced additional flights on its Lagos and Abuja route network. The airline, in a statement said, the introduction of the new flights were based on demand and the need to follow through with its strategic route expansion. In a statement, the carrier said: “With these flights passengers can rest assured that we will always have convenient, optional flight times on the Lagos and Abuja routes. This expansion will be across the network, as we take delivery of more of our B737 aircraft very soon. We want to be available to our passengers at suitable times across the network and our growth has been consistent, meticulous and commendable and we want to keep it that way for our loyal customers who have kept us going.”