A group of investors have launched a business incubating company with a focus on supporting businesses of African origin. The investors working under aegis of Maplandi Group of companies assured that its mandate is to ease the suffering of the vulnerable people across Africa with focus areas such as real estate, agriculture, technology and education, according to President Apostle Amos Yeboah is envisioned to turn things around. “We strongly believe that with the emergency of Maplandi, we will play a major role in transforming the economic growth and system of Africans and beyond, We are here to teach people how to create wealth without stress and also help them to save for the rainy days.” According to him, the group which has six different subsidiary companies will no doubt make significant impact between now and the year 2032, as its goal is to provide massive incentives to over one billion people in Africa. “We are unique and original, we do things in our unique ways, we don’t copy. Our records speak volume of who we are and what we have achieved. We are open to verification,” he said.   Expert cautions on socioeconomic risk of cosmetic abuse     MFB marks 14th anniversary with fanfare, assures SMEs of…     How to reset Nigeria’s ailing economy, by expert   Earlier in his words, he Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Resource Intermediate Ltd, Mr Olusoji Oyawole, stated that Nigerians need to come out from their shell, have vision and set target for themselves. Oyawole opined that 70 per cent of Nigerians are poor because they lack vision, and even if they have, they lack commensurate action to drive it, because vision without action, that push, is like a dream. He went further to say that Nigeria is blessed with mineral and agricultural resources, stressing that only when one discovers the right path, he or she will continue to be struggling and putting the blame on the government. Making their submissions, the CEO’s of the six subsidiaries emphasised the importance of not expecting anything from the government but to build that inclination of what to give back to government. Also, the Vice President and CEO of Farmsmap limited, one of the subsidiaries of Maplandi, Mr Jonathando Okechukwu noted that the agency is a marketing solution and vision empowerment company with a genuine interest to help solve the ignorance and problems of Africa, as the company is launched today to help in guiding, discovering and rebranding your dream.