Executive Vice Chairman (EVC), Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Danbatta, has been elected to the Governing Council of the Nigerian Academy of Engineering (NAE), a step which signposts his outstanding role in the development of engineering. The Council of NAE is the highest decision-making body of the Academy that oversees the country’s highest professional bodies in science, technology and engineering. Notice of the election, conveyed by Honorary Secretary of the Academy, Christy Adelowo, indicated that Danbatta, and other council members will serve for two years. Danbatta, a professor of Telecommunications Engineering with several decades of experience in academia and professional practice, was inducted a Fellow of NAE on June 21, 2018, during its Annual Lecture and Investiture of 10th President of the Academy. A statement by the Director, Public Affairs at NCC, Reuben Muoka, explained that Danbatta expressed appreciation to the council for considering him worthy to serve.   ‘Kerosene price rose by 12.09% in June’     Dockworkers shut terminals     CAF AWARDS 2022: Oshoala may pick record fifth African …   “The Council can count on my intellectual and moral support towards the achievement of the overall objectives of the Academy,” he said. Danbatta’s contributions to the engineering profession has been eloquently attested to, with a number of public lectures, including one at the Academy on November 9, 2016, titled “The National Broadband Plan as Catalyst for Social and Economic Transformation: The NCC Mandate”. On June 23, 2021, Danbatta received a special recognition from the NAE in appreciation for his contributions through remarkable implementation of various programmes of the Commission which has seen very purposeful collaborations with the academia and other professional institutions in science and technology towards the advancement of the socio-economic development of Nigeria. Danbatta has severally played similar roles, roles in the past, including his two terms as a Member of the Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN). He is a Fellow of the Nigerian Society of Engineers (FNSE), Fellow of the Renewable and Alternative Energy Society (FRAES) and Fellow, Nigerian Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (NIEEE).