Caverton Offshore Support Group Plc has promised to expand its operations to Ghana, Senegal and Morocco. Its Chief Executive Officer Mr.  Makanjuola Olabode, spoke to select reporters yesterday after the Nigerian Content Development Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Executive Secretary, Simbi Wabote, visited his company’s exhibition stand at the 21st Nigeria Oil and Gas (NOG) conference in Abuja. The group also displayed a 40-seater water bus – a prototype boat built for marine transport in coastal regions. Describing the water bus, Olabode said: “We are able to build our first prototype boat which is oil industry standard, meaning that it is very safe and we are very proud of it as it is our newest project. “It can also be used as a crew boat for the IOCs. We are looking at all the riverine areas, we have got people interested in this in Akwa Ibom, Rivers states, among others.” On expansion to other countries, he said: “We also operate outside Nigeria – in Cameroon. And we are looking at starting operations in Ghana and possibly Senegal as well as in Morocco.” He said since only the oil and gas business could no longer sustain the firm, it carries out marine shuttles and it is now diversifying to other businesses like training, third party maintenance to thrive. His words: “We are diversifying our business because we have realized that our business cannot survive on just our day to day logistics for the oil industry alone. “So, we are developing training capability, third party maintenance for our marine business to help keep the company going because now we have a more diversified portfolio.” He recalled that the firm started its business as a marine company.   Fed Govt: petrol scarcity will linger until full…     Kuje prison: 64 Boko Haram suspects escape after attack     Kuje: Day terrorists wreaked havoc   Olabode stressed that the firm   operated tankers as far back as 1999 with two tankers besides, then another one with the Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC). According to him, his company actually “started the Nigerian LNG LPG Distribution Program, which we brought into very large carriers. It was in 2004 that we moved into the aviation space and with the support of NCDMB at the time, as well as Shell, we were able to now break into that (marine) market. “I think we hold about 70per cent of that that particular market.” The CEO noted that the company always seeks sectors, where there are challenges or opportunities and ventures into proferring the solution by diversifying into the industry. Recalling how the firm floated its aviation business, he said it was upon the realization that there was no locally owned helicopter in the country. His words: “After we were able we first got into a helicopter because we realized there are no Nigerians in that sector. We’re able to conquer that but then realize that one of the things that the aviation sector was struggling with was maintenance, and training, most importantly training. “We built the first ever maintenance repair centre and overhaul center in Lagos in Nigeria. “It is basically what the center effectively means is that we don’t have to fly any of our aircraft out of the country. “For major repairs, we can actually strip an aircraft down and actually if you keep watching the video, you see you can actually take an aircraft apart. “We sprayed and put it all back together again. Or, like if people want to export a helicopter, they can come to us and request it. “One of the interesting things is we do that for our entire fleet and we do third party as well. So the Nigerian Navy, Nigerian Air Force and even the Presidential fleet of the Benin Republic actually use services.” He said the idea is to create a hub in sub-Saharan Africa for this sort of operation. According to him, the firm has moved on to training, especially when local content is concerned.