Ten persons have been gunned down in attacks on Plateau and Imo states. One of the dead was a soldier, who was killed in a bandits’ ambush on Sunday night in the Kampani area of Wase council of Plateau State. Two civilians were also killed in the attack, Major Ishaku Takwa, spokesman of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) said. Takwa described the incident as “an ambush attack”, adding that the “criminals came out unexpectedly from the forest and opened fire on a moving vehicle. “There was serious exchange of fire between the bandits and the soldiers but the soldiers successfully repelled the criminals.” In Imo, gunmen suspected to be operatives of operatives of Ebubeagu security outfit allegedly opened fire on wedding guests, killing seven of them. The incident happened on Sunday, causing panic in the state. The victims were said to be going back to their community in Otulu in Oru East Local Government Area of the state from Awomama in the neighbouring Oru West LGA when the suspects opened fire on them.   UPDATED: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd     Ondo lawmaker, farmers protest alleged forceful farmland…     BREAKING: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd   The President General of Otulu community, Nnamdi Agbor, who confirmed the incident to newsmen, said that seven persons died on the spot. He said: “Our people were coming back from Awo Omamma around 7pm after a traditional wedding. Ebube Agu operatives saw them in motorcycles and opened fire on them. As I speak to you, we have recovered seven dead bodies who are our people. Five are missing. Two are critical injuried and hospitalised while the other person who sustained minor injury has been discharged. “This is very unfortunate. Our people are angry. They are protesting. There was no cause for the killing. They were just riding home when the Ebubeagu Security outfit opened fire on them. This has never happened before. “We have reported the incident to the security agents. The commissioner of police and the commander of the 34 Artillery Brigade Command Obinze have visited. The DPO is also assisting. I have reported the killing to the member representing us at the National Assembly. “The celebrant is Chijioke Nnanna. Those arrested are Uchenna Orjiribeka, Chido Ekesinachi and Nnamdi Ekesinachi. Those in the hospital are  Oluebube Agbor and Thank God Iheukwumere. Those who were killed are, Chigozie Obinwa, Ozioma, Chikere Anyadioha, Ifechi Ekesinachi, Emeka Ekesinachi , Aboy Ihegboro and Chijindu. Five persons are still missing,” he said. Police spokesman Michael Abattam confirmed the incident, saying that investigation had begun. Also, gunmen yesterday attacked Mgbuji village in Isi-Uzo council of Enugu State and abducted no fewer than 15 residents. This is just as about two weeks precisely on July 5 that the gunmen in police and military uniforms had kidnapped seven residents of the same community and shot three others. The current victims were reported kidnapped at about 7am along Mgbuji-Agu road within Mgbuji town while they were going to their farms. A resident of the community who identified himself simply as Onyekachi Odo, told newsmen that some of the villagers, who were going to their farms with tricycles were intercepted by gun wielding herdsmen numbering over 20, and taken to unknown destination. Odo, said “some the victims according information us were picked in their farms.” Spokesman of Mgbuji Community, Chijioke Ogbodo, confirmed the abductions on Monday. He decried the constant attack in the community by terrorists despite the presence of security operatives in the area.