All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain Ibrahim Masari has explained why he stepped down as running mate to the presidential candidate Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. He said he opted out to give the standard bearer more latitude to foster political accommodation and inclusion within the platform, ahead of next year’s poll. Masari said in a statement titled:”Resignation as APC vice presidential candidate, ” that he had already submitted his letter of withdrawal and an affidavit to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). It reads: “This is to inform our esteemed party leaders under our able President Muhammadu Buhari, teeming party members and the great people of Nigeria, of the outcome of a crucial discussion I just had with the flag-bearer of our great party, All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “I had the singular honour and privilege of being nominated as the running-mate to Asiwaju Tinubu last month after a keenly contested presidential primaries ahead of the 2023 general elections.   BREAKING: Tinubu picks Shettima as running mate     Oyetola prays to return as Osun Gov     Insecurity: I can’t be cowed, Fani-Kayode tells military    “But, after much reflection and wider consultations, I now wish to step down. I realized that my decision will enable Asiwaju have more latitude to give more accommodation and inclusion that will position our party to win the coming elections, with the support of the people of Nigeria. “In stepping down, I believe I can still serve our party and the country in several other capacities. “I wish to confirm that I have submitted my withdrawal letter and affidavit to that effect as the Vice Presidential Candidate to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed TInubu in the coming elections. “On behalf of myself and family, I wish to sincerely thank Asiwaju Tinubu — the Incoming President, Insha Allah — for his trust in me and we promise to remain steadfast in our support for him and the party.” Interim National Coordinator of Bola Tinubu Campaign Organisation James Faleke, confirmed the withdrawal. He said: ” Alhaji Masari has communicated his decision to us from Saudi Arabia where he is presently performing the hajj.” Hailing what he described as “Masari’s sacrifice,” he said in a statement that the withdrawal “will give Asiwaju Tinubu an opportunity to take a decision that will further enhance the chances of our great party in the 2023 elections.”