The Federal Government has sought the support and collaboration of The Netherlands Development Agency (SNV) to enable it achieve its policy of “grow what you eat and eat what you grow”. The Minister of State, Budget and National Planning, Mr. Clem Agba, said this in Abuja at the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with The Netherlands delegation, led by the Country Director to Nigeria and Ghana, Mr. Anjo Van Toorn. The MoU aims to strengthen relationships between the two countries and support Nigeria to achieve food security. Agba urged The Netherlands to support the poor rural farmers in Nigeria with necessary resources to enable them produce what the nation can consume to achieve food security. The minister noted that Netherlands has the experience and expertise to do so.   UPDATED: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd     Ondo lawmaker, farmers protest alleged forceful farmland…     BREAKING: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd   He expressed confidence that the MoU would open windows of support and collaboration for the mutual benefits of both countries since The Netherlands has opportunities to be fully on ground in Nigeria. Van Toorn said SNV would bring to bear its 57 years of experience to support the Nigerian government and the people in food system, renewable energy, climate-smart agriculture, water and sanitation. The country director, who has been in Ghana for two years, said he would begin operating between Nigeria and Ghana henceforth, promising to expand the activities and programmes of the agency in the country. Addressing reporters after the ceremony, Van Toorn said SNV would encourage women to take up leadership roles and productive economic activities in the country. The country director said youths who form over 50 per cent of the nation’s population would greatly benefit from the organisation’s programmes as the SNV would design activities to give them opportunities to participate in building a stable society. He added that the SNV would also strengthen governance in Nigeria through partnership with civil society organisations and the private sectors.