Former Cameroon Davis Cup tennis player/national champion Joseph Oyebog is not giving up on his dreams of building the largest tennis academy in West Africa. On the contrary, Oyebog, 57, is waxing stronger on a vision he gave birth to 20 years ago while teaching tennis in a small community in the United States of America. (USA). When Oyebog was 7, he was first exposed to tennis when he watched a local match not far from his school. Soon after, he picked up a racket and began his own journey on the court. By his 22nd birthday, he had trained in Bradenton, Florida., at The Bollettieri Tennis Academy, where he was scouted and awarded a tennis scholarship for Columbus College in Columbus. Years of international Davis Cup tournaments earned him a ranking in the top 10 in college tennis in the world. Oyebog later came back to Florida, where he worked with two of his most famous students: Venus and Serena Williams. He was titled their ‘Aspiring Hitting Partner,’ and trained with them. He always wanted to expose those less fortunate to tennis, to give them the chances he says he was lucky enough to have. The Oyebog Tennis Academy (OTA) was created in 1999 in Cameroon, Africa. Currently, there are 25 centers nationwide that host 1,200 children and 50 coaches, administrators, and volunteers. “I came up with the idea that if kids start to play tennis at early ages, they have more time to get to a higher level,” Oyebog said. “In Africa, families make only two or three thousand dollars each year to feed families with many children. Through this program, those kids have the opportunity to gain scholarships and do well in school.” Oyebog initially came to Fairfield County by way of Trumbull when he was offered a teaching position at a tennis club. Then, he began to train players locally, ranging from elementary-aged children to senior citizens on a daily basis. With the fees he charges for lessons, Oyebog contributes to OTA to provide the players in Africa with materials, coaches, and other necessities to keep the program running. “I am lucky to be in the position where I can give back to my community,” Oyebog said. “It gives me a great opportunity to be able to help my home country, and to expose them to tennis.” The goal of the academy is to provide opportunities for students to be able to attend colleges and universities across the globe through tennis scholarships.   UFC middleweight title: Israel Adesanya defeats Cannonier     Forest sign Henderson on loan from Man United     Rangers told to ‘chain up’ Bassey   “Even though it sounds like a very big program, it has a lot of challenges. It is run on donated court time only,” Oyebog said. “The main goal of the program is to one day have a tennis facility for people to train at peace.” In 2010, we got scholarships for 20 players in the U.S. Specifically, Victor Sanakai, his prized student, won the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA) tournament in 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009. Another player of his, Natahalie Sienkob, also won the NAIA tournament for the women’s league. In turn, Oyebog also inspires tennis players in Fairfield County. “He’s a big teddy bear,” said West porter Beth Franklin, who has played with Oyebog for more than five years. “You see Joseph, and he’s larger than life. He’s always happy, very warm, and friendly.” Westporter Jodi Reiner, another long-time student, furthered how he’s “good-hearted. This isn’t just his job,” she said. “You can tell that he’s a special kind of guy and that his heart’s in a good place.” raising the profile of Cameroon tennis across the continent — and the confidence, hope, and opportunity of youngsters in desperate need of all. Joseph continues to do two things here: teach tennis and gather resources to support the OTA program. Westporters have rallied around Joseph’s mission and have been an important help. For example, Guy and Sunny Sherman are co-presidents of the OTA board. The tennis center is named Sherman Grounds in their honour. Heidi Kness, Stephanie Lemcke, Beth Hochhauser, Monica Ryan, Oona Robinson, Chris Lebrun, Lorraine Oldale, Christina Schwerin, and Claire Mason all provide invaluable assistance. So, does the Staples High School boys tennis team, which packs used tennis equipment to be sent to Cameroon. Last fall, Westporters helped send a shipping container to Cameroon. It included tennis equipment, shoes, tennis balls, clothes — and a truck. Joseph Oyebog stands proudly in the center. “My desire is to build the largest tennis academy in West Africa and by this touch the lives of young Africans and help them make meaning of their lives.”