President Muhammadu Buhari and House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila have felicitated the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) and its new president, Mr. Yakubu Maikyau (SAN), on the association’s successful election of a new Executive Council. A statement yesterday in Abuja by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, said: “President Buhari warmly felicitates the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) on successful conclusion of its elections, rejoicing with Mr. Yakubu Chonoko Maikyau (SAN) who is new leader of the legal body. “The President congratulates the legal luminary for becoming the 31st President of the highly revered association, which has over the years played a major role in democratic and economic development of the country with advocacy, counselling and partnership with governments. “The President salutes the outgoing President of the NBA, Olumide Akpata, and all the national leaders who took the association to a higher level, particularly with building new partnerships and integration of technology.” In his congratulatory message, through his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the Speaker said with Maikyau’s experience as a senior lawyer of repute, the NBA would be taken to the next level of growth and development.   UPDATED: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd     Ondo lawmaker, farmers protest alleged forceful farmland…     BREAKING: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd   Gbajabiamila, who is also a lawyer, expressed satisfaction with how the NBA members conducted themselves during the elections, held virtually at the weekend. Also, a former NBA President and Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) has urged Maikyau to be the voice of the people. The governor, who hailed the NBA for the smooth transition of power, urged the new President to be above board and hold the tenets of the Law profession with dignity. In a statement, Akeredolu said: “The NBA, over the years, has continued to safeguard human rights and promote the rule of law. We owe it as a duty not to lose sight of this onerous responsibility. “As a former President of the Bar, I am aware that the people will always look up to you to speak on their behalf. The Bar has an active role to play in the socio-economic development of the country. We can’t afford to let the people down. “As lawyers, it is important to always prosecute your convictions with courage and be the voice of the people. When you speak, you do so with authority.” The governor expressed appreciation to the NBA for naming its Institute’s Building after him and his Professional Mother, Chief Folake Solanke (SAN).