Former Super Eagles manager Gernot Rohr is convinced that Victor Osimhen is the ideal striker to replace Robert Lewandowski at Bayern Munich should the Polish international depart the Allianz Arena this summer. Osimhen is expected to be among the most in-demand players during this transfer window. Several Premier League sides such as Arsenal, Manchester United, Tottenham, and Newcastle United have all contacted Napoli for his services. The Super Eagles striker is known to admire the EPL, but he is open to spending another year in Naples. Osimhen scored 14 Serie A goals last term to help Napoli secure a place in next season’s UEFA Champions League competition. “If Bayern let Robert Lewandowski go, Victor would be a good alternative,” Rohr told Sport Bild.   EPL: Awoniyi may lead Nottingham against Newcastle     Ferguson urges Rangers to keep Bassey     Federer eyes one more Wimbledon   “I think he would prevail in Munich. Since he already has experience in the Bundesliga and speaks a little German, his adjustment period is of course shorter than with other players from abroad. When asked if Osimhen had the potential to be a world-class striker, the German coach said the 23-year-old’s fighting spirit would definitely take him to the top of the game. “Of course. I called up Victor for the national team when he was 18 and everyone was surprised,” Rohr continued. “It wasn’t easy for the boy, who had to fight back after a serious injury. He had a difficult time at VfL Wolfsburg (2017 to 2019, ed.) after Klaus Allofs, who discovered him for VfL, was no longer there. Victor fought his way through, he learned that as a little boy.” “When he was ten years old, he sold water in Nigeria’s giant metropolis of Lagos (22 million inhabitants, ed.), wherever there was a traffic jam – in the sweltering heat to make ends meet. “This boy knows exactly where he comes from and will never forget it. Victor is also a fighter on the pitch, and has great moral and physical qualities. Technically he has improved a lot, recently in Lille and Napoli he showed how dangerous he is. “If he develops further, he can become one. Victor still needs to improve a few things, like working on his body language. If something doesn’t work, he shows it too much on the pitch. But these are small things, he can handle them,” Rohr added