To abate the global crisis in the health sector, the Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria (ACPN) has teamed up to deliberate on contemporary issues affecting the practice of pharmacy and matters related to the well-being of Nigerians.   This has become more necessary as reports have showed that the COVID-19 pandemic has killed more than 15 million people globally.   The ACPN, whose vision is to stay protective and preventive in the health delivery system, will be reflecting on the healthcare global crisis at the 41st Annual National Scientific Conference, slated to hold from July 25-29 in Lagos.   The theme of the conference, ‘Never waste a crisis: Community pharmacists learning for future preparedness.’ The Executive Director of the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dr Faisal Shuaib, would be the keynote speaker. Speaking ahead of the conference, the National Chairman of ACPN, Adewale Aderemi Oladigbolu, said as the country is in dire need of more resources for health, ACPN is available to close the gap as about 200 hundred community pharmacists will be trained for vaccination at the event. “About 100 pharmacists are administering COVID-19 vaccination nationwide out of 6,530 willing and able community pharmacists. You will agree with us that more pharmacists must be trained to close the gaps in COVID-19 vaccination as well as routine immunisations. Let me remind you that we are doing this in conjunction with the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHCDA),” he said.   NDLEA partners Healthgarde to tackle drug abuses     NHIA Act 2022: X-raying a landmark law     Six healthy vegetables good for consumption   Oladigbolu highlighted that part of the enlisted agenda for the event is the Mandatory Continuing Development Program (MCPD) as stipulated by the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN) for all pharmacy practitioners in Nigeria. According to him, “Nigeria needs to scale up on meeting her primary healthcare needs and we are offering the whole country the outlets, knowledge, and skill of the over 6,500 community pharmacists to the NPHCDA. One of our sub-themes for the conference is community pharmacies as primary healthcare centres in Nigeria: what, how and why? This will revolve around the formal integration of community pharmacies into the primary healthcare system in Nigeria.” On the National Health Insurance Act, which is at the implementation stage, the ACPN chairman said its members could not shy away from their responsibilities to Nigerians in guaranteeing the total care. This, he added, that the health of Nigerians could not be said to be guaranteed without the input of pharmacists. “Pharmacy practice is a scientific endeavour with a huge commercial window and hence we will leave no stone unturned in guaranteeing the financial health of the practice of our members. “Hence, we are partnering Polaris Bank and Leadway Insurance in crafting a workshop titled financial intelligence for community pharmacists. Healthy community pharmacies will doubtlessly ensure a better healthcare system in Nigeria,” he added.