Manchester United have completed the signing of Christian Eriksen on a three-year contract. Eriksen, 30, has signed a deal until 2025 and becomes their second summer signing after Tyrell Malacia. Denmark international Eriksen was a free agent after leaving Brentford and United have reinforced their attack with a playmaker who shone in the Premier League during his six years with Tottenham. Eriksen flew into England early this week for a stringent medical after suffering a cardiac arrest while playing for Denmark against Finland in the European Championship last summer. United manager Erik ten Hag encountered Eriksen at Ajax at the start of the year when he trained with his former club to build up match fitness.   Bayern Munich’s Lewandowski joins Barcelona for €50m     Lewandowski bids Bayern goodbye, nears move to Barcelona     Chukwudi emerges President of Amputee Football Federation   Eriksen will not link up with the United squad on their pre-season tour of Australia, where they have two more games against Crystal Palace in Melbourne on Tuesday and Aston Villa in Perth next Saturday. Eriksen said: “Manchester United is a special club, and I cannot wait to get started. I have had the privilege of playing at Old Trafford many times but to do it in the red shirt of United will be an amazing feeling. “I have seen Erik’s work at Ajax and know the level of detail and preparation that he and his staff put into every day. It is clear that he is a fantastic coach. Having spoken with him and learned more about his vision and the way he wants the team to play, I am even more excited for the future. “I still have major ambitions in the game, there is a huge amount that I know I can achieve, and this is the perfect place to continue my journey.” The United football director John Murtough added: “Christian has been one of the best attacking midfielders in Europe throughout his career. It is no surprise that he had so many options this summer, so we are really happy that he was convinced that this is the right club for him.” “In addition to his outstanding technique, Christian will add valuable experience and leadership skills to the squad, and we are looking forward to seeing the benefits of these qualities on the pitch this coming season and beyond.”