It was like throwing a pebble into a placid lake in a corner of Zamfara.  Yet, the violent ripples were all over Nigeria.  It’s the federal question, stupid! — to parody that famous quip, from the campaign jaunt of Bill Clinton, then US Democratic Party presidential candidate. By announcing a policy that purportedly directs the Zamfara State Commissioner of Police (CP) to license as many Zamfara citizens as are willing to be licensed to carry arms against marauding bandits in self defence, Governor Bello Matawalle has raised the stakes in citizen security, in Nigeria’s 36 states, under the general rubrics of federalism. In a clash of the de jure with the de facto, it is doubtful if the Zamfara CP would even humour, not to talk of honour, the governor’s directive.  That is one aspect of the dirty underbelly of Nigeria’s so-called “federalism” where governors, the so-called “chief security officers” of their states, cannot give legal directives to state CPs, without the CPs first clearing with the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), an appointee of the President of the Federal Republic. In a reflex reaction, Lt-Gen. Lucky Irabor, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) and highest ranking administrative officer in the military hierarchy, even loudly doubted if the Zamfara State governor could validly direct the Zamfara CP to license arms since such power, he claimed, was exclusively the president’s.  If that were true, then it’s another pointer to the artificiality of Nigeria’s “federalism”. That means that on security — or its flip side, massive insecurity, which Zamfara has faced for quite a while now; and which has forced Governor Matawalle to announce this controversial policy — only far-away Abuja can raise a finger, while locals routinely reel, wilt and die from bandits’ bullets.  Despite the unitary practices bossing a territory that is federal by law, that reality is hardly sustainable without something terrible giving!  That is the Zamfara development. Still, before you roast the CDS, remember his was only a frank and honest commentary on the grim reality.  Besides, when the chips are down, the CDS would provide troops to face the fire.  You can just say it’s the military informally having their legitimate say, in matters in which they are involved, in the best tradition of democracy, before lulling into diplomatic quiet. Aside from the CDS, controversy in civil society has trailed the Zamfara freely-arm-the-locals policy.  While one governor or two has hailed the move (Benue Governor Samuel Ortom, for one), others have considered it unnecessary. Other influential Nigerians have branded it recklessly emotive or hare-brained — which it could well be. Other citizens are questioning the sanity of Zamfara locals wielding simple arms against military-grade, sophisticated AK-47 and allied small arms; concluding that such match-up would be a tragic travesty.  It would not only prove a tragic delusion, after the initial rush of costly emotions, it could create a grievous, long-term security crisis, even after banditry and allied immediate security challenges had become history.  They reference the seeming uncontrollable gun violence in the United States.  All these are valid fears.   Godwin Kienka: Why Nigerian sports is ‘going round in…     Onyekuru: I could stay in Galatasaray forever     Adesola Adeyemi: My experience on international runway has…   Still, Governor Matawalle appears unruffled and undeterred in his new path, in defence of his long-suffering people.  The ink had hardly dried on his controversial directive when he launched some follow-up actions, which bear closer interrogations. As part of his new Zamfara security package, he inaugurated four bodies: the Committee on Intelligence Gathering on Banditry, Community Protection Guards (CPG), a committee on Banditry-Related Offences and the State Security Standing Panel.  To walk his new talk in logistics and operational hardware, the governor donated 20 new Toyota Hilux vans and 1, 500 motorbikes to get the new bodies cracking. The next day, he signed into law the Anti-Banditry and Other Related Offences Bill.  That came into force immediately; and prescribed death penalty for anyone found guilty of banditry, kidnapping and cattle rustling.  Earlier, he had let fly a directive to security agencies to shoot, on sight, anyone riding a bike, to underscore the ban on Okada-riding in Zamfara.  Though bikes are bandits’ favourable choice of transport, this was another controversial call that could well end in grief. Still, take a close look at the newly structured security components: the Committee on Intelligence Gathering on Banditry, the Community Protection Guards (CPG), and the State Security Standing Panel could be harmonised under a single body — state police — if state police were to be legalised.  The fourth, Committee on Banditry-Related Offences, could be a cross-agency liaison body linking the Zamfara State Police, the Zamfara State Ministry of Justice and the Zamfara judiciary. That should provide another layer, in vibrant state security infrastructure, to the present central arrangement.  Formalising these new structures in the Zamfara State frame can only complement the central police; and reach further mileage and better penetration into those wide and wild ungovernable forests that are now safe haven for bandits, from where these criminals troop out to plague, kill, maim and rob defenceless rural folks. In other words, with all the excitability provoked by the Zamfara new arms policy, the simple antidote might well be legalising state police.  That way, instead of citizens licensed to bear near-unrestrained small arms, the arms are limited to a corps of trained (wo)men, drilled and paid to protect the rest. That would not only be pragmatic federalism on the security front, it would also be a throwback to the classic Social Contract, when the majority voluntarily gave up part of their freedom (to carry arms, for instance), in return for the central protection of the Leviathan, the pristine state.  What the Zamfara excitement calls for, therefore, is for Nigeria to federalise that “Leviathan” in state police, to fend off the other extreme, of free access to arms. Governor Matawalle has thrown the present dire security situation into the public space.  Let the Federal Government be less paranoid about state police.  It’s an idea whose time has come.  Let the states too be less delusional, on the ethno-regional front: insecurity is not North versus South; or East versus West.  It is rather a common threat to all. As Zamfara is readying its CPG, and Lagos its Neighbourhood Watch Corps, let other areas ready their Amotekun, their Ebubeagu, their Civilian Joint Task Forces and sundry quasi-formal security bulwarks.  They could well be ready frames for state police. Let the Federal Government seize the times and show leadership.  Delay could be dangerous!