Twenty six Private Health Training Institutions (PHTIs) allegedly operating illegally and without licence from regulatory bodies were on Friday shut down by Kano State Government. The Commissioner of Health, in a statement by the Information Officer of the Ministry of Health, Hadiza Mustapha Namadi, accused the affected institutions of engaging in “sharp practices and extortion of unsuspecting students who pay exorbitant fees without getting commensurate value for their money.” The statement reads: “The Kano State Ministry of Health has noticed with serious concern, the incessant proliferation of illegal Private Heath Training Institutions (PHTIs) in the State without recourse to extant regulations governing the establishment and operation of such schools as specified by regulatory bodies and other relevant authorities. “It is of serious dismay to realize that some of those un-recognized institutions lack definite sites and offer dubious programmes against the established course curricula, while also extorting exorbitant fees on students and their parents. “Suffices to indicate, this ugly trend is at the detriment of the people, educational development and efficiency of the entire health system.   Osun: fear grips PDP camp     Anxiety as INEC closes nomination for presidential, NASS…     Osun 2022: PRP candidate lampoons executives over withdrawal…   “Consequently, the general public are hereby informed of the instant shut-down of all illegal Health Training Institutions in the State, pending the outcome of necessary investigations.” The Health Institutions closed in Kano include: Unity College of Health Science and Technology Dorayi Karama (K.G/Mai), Gwale LGA, Khalil College of Health Science and Technology Zaria Road, opposite Gadar Lado, Shamila College of Health Science & Technology Gezawa LGA, Autan Bawo College of Health Science and Technology Rano LGA, Trustee College of Health Science and Technology Jakara, Dala LGA – Kano Bachirawa, Ungoggo LGA – Kano, Eagle College of Health Science and Technology Bichi LGA. Also closed down by the state government are Albakari College of Health Science and Technology Rijiyar Zaki, Ungoggo LGA, Jamatu College of Health Science and Technology Kura LGA, Savanna College of Health Science and Technology Wudil LGA, Institute of Health Education Ahmadiyya, Opposite INEC Office, Jamilu Chiroma College of Health Science and Technology, Kings-Garden/Airport Road, Sir Sanusi College of Health Science and Technology Matan Fada Road, Aminu Ado Bayero College of Health Science & Technology Ado Bayero Layout, Dandinshe Yamma – Dala LGA, Awwab College of Health Science and Technology, Salanta, Gwale LGA. Others are Gwarzo Unity College of Health Science and Technology, Gwarzo LGA, Al-wasa’u College of Health Science and Technology T/Fulani, Nassarawa LGA, Kanima Academy Layin Dan-kargo, Zangon Dakata, Nassarawa LGA, Muslim College of Health Science and Technology, Zungeru Road, Fagge LGA, Utopia College of Health Science and Technology Jigirya JSS, Yankaba, Nassarawa LGA, Jama’a College of Health Science and Technology Na’ibawa Yan-lemo, Tarauni LGA, Kausar Healthcare Academy, Jos Road, Beside Islamic Centre, T/Wada LGA, Shanono College of Health Science and Technology No. 33 Kofar Gari, Shanono LGA, Institute of Basic Health Education, Jakara Guarden, Airport Road, Nassarawa LGA, School of Health Technology, Habib Faruq Girls Sec. Sch., Gidan Kara, Kurna T/Fulani, School of Health Technology, Bachirawa Special Primary School, Ungoggo LGA, and Fudiyya School of Health Sciences Danrimi, ‘Yan-babura Rijiyar Lemo, Fagge LGA. “People are equally required to note that only the dully registered institutions and accredited courses should be patronized as any subscription to un-recognized schools is tantamount to self-subjection to security risks, doom academic and career prospects, as well as financial deceptions. “The Ministry will cooperate with all stakeholder agencies to ensure regular monitoring and inspection of the Health Training Institutions (HTIs) across the state for sanity and safety.”