While electricity is seen as a major booster of industrial growth, the country’s development aspiration has continually suffered severe constraints because of low power generation. During the week, the country’s epileptic electricity grid, collapsed, causing a blackout and leaving businesses and homes with losses. It became a subject of discussion on social media. Some even made a mockery of the situation saying “National grid ti lu le.” Major cities including the Federal Capital Territory were cast in darkness. The embarrassing development is coming at a time of spike in the cost of diesel and scarcity of petrol, fuel hike to further compound the woes of all Nigerians. Over the years, successive governments have promised but failed to turn around the country’s power sector which, on average, produces about 4,000 megawatts for a population of 200 million. The national electricity grid is a network of generation companies, distribution companies, and the Transmission Company of Nigeria. The Federal Government of Nigeria is solely responsible for the transmission of electricity generated by the generating company to the distribution companies. Available data indicate that there are 23 power generating plants with 11,165 megawatts capacity connected to the national grid. These are managed by generation companies (Gencos), independent power producers, and the Niger Delta Holding Company with only two of these being hydro plants, namely the Jebba and Shiroro plants. While the country’s electricity challenges have remained the same way, some argue that it has worsened further despite the different periodic leadership changes.   Fresh trouble for Tambuwal, Bala, others as court axes Umahi     2023: Buhari hails APC leaders over choice of candidates     Victoria Oluboyo: Nigeria’s pride in Parma   The power grid collapsed twice in March and twice again in April this year. The latest collapse made it the sixth time this year. The grid experienced 206 collapses between 2010 and 2019. While the problem of power has continued to pose a serious issue, the Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu appears to be overwhelmed, and cannot find a headway with the intractable power crisis. Everyone recalls that President Muhammadu Buhari had come to power on the promise that he would tackle the perennial poor power crisis. He had merged the Power sector with Works and Housing and handed the responsibilities to Minister Babatunde Fashola. The expectations were higher. But Fashola got overwhelmed and overburdened with the two critical ministries, especially with the torrential responsibilities attached to the offices. Fashola’s successor, Engr. Sale Mamman was appointed to take over the power ministry but along the line, he got sacked and was replaced with Aliyu. Aliyu is the third minister to occupy the power ministry so far in President Buhari’s six years in office. Upon his arrival, Aliyu met the existing issues and was forced to compare the present power supply crisis in the country to a war situation, saying that the ministry under his leadership is taking all necessary measures to remain on top of it. Aliyu, 56, is a civil and water resource engineer. He was until his appointment as substantive minister, the Minister of State for Works and Housing, from 2019 to 2021. A fellow of the Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) and a member of the Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN), he hails from Potiskum in Yobe State. He was a former deputy governor under ex-Governor Ibrahim Gaidam who also oversaw the ministries for health, commerce, and integrated rural development as commissioner. He attended Central Primary School, Jimeta, Adamawa State, graduating in 1979, and G.S.S.S. Monguno, in Borno State for his West African School Certificate in 1984.