Again, government has failed Nigerians. Insecurity reigns in the land, with the leadership showing incapacity to rein in the criminals. Within about a decade, what Nigerians derided in other countries has become commonplace at home. Kidnappers are on the prowl everywhere, killer-herders strike at homes and farms leaving a long trail of blood, bandits now posture as alternate governments, dictating taxes and levies and beheading those who fail to oblige them. The Tuesday, July 5, vicious attack on Kuje custodial centre was a daring move to seize this country by the jugular. It was alarming because it reenacted similar attacks on custodial facilities in Owerri, Imo State, Kabba and Koton Karfe in Kogi, Benin in Edo and Abolongo in Oyo, among others. Each was followed with visits by federal and state officials who vowed there would never be a repeat. That the criminals were audacious to take the battle to the Federal Capital Territory illustrated the futility of that pledge. The Buhari administration has always been quick to point out how far the country has come from those days that terrorists attacked the United Nations and the Police Force headquarters under the former Jonathan administration. But despite warnings that such attack was coming, upon which security in and around the Kuje facility should have been fortified, terrorists had enough space to spring out 64  Boko Haram terrorists along with other inmates. One of the indices of a failed state is inability to secure lives and property of citizens. When people are unsafe even in their homes, the state has failed them. When promises by political leaders, high officials of state and security officers amount to nothing, the state is steeped in serious crisis. It is no surprise that highly educated and skilled youths are voting with their feet, never intending to look back. Herein is the danger: we have a society in dire need of development but being deserted by professionals who hold the key to its future; a nation in need of investment, but unable to convince its men of means to invest locally.   Eze’s pool tragedy     Diesel prize and healthcare     Bullet on Ballot   The ramifications of that jailbreak and others before it have not been fully appreciated. Terrorists are on the loose. At Kuje, they achieved their full objective whereas the state was caught napping. As a result, Abuja the capital city, is no longer safe. Terrorists based in Niger and Nasarawa, as well as Kaduna might have found a way to upset the peace of Nigeria from the centre. Unless security forces step up their act, the emboldened terrorists could get more daring in taking on the state and further dampen citizens’ morale. To check incessant attacks on custodial centres, urgent measures must be taken. And this is beyond the President paying a visit and asking questions ordinary citizens should. It is beyond security chiefs, legislators and ministers turning the Kuje centre to a tourist cite. Here the President should demonstrate that he is the Commander-in-Chief. He should wield the big stick. Officials guilty of dereliction of duty, whether deliberately or otherwise, should be brought to book. This is one jailbreak too many that should attract severe sanction. Starting with Minister of Interior Rauf Aregbesola who has failed to secure custodial facilities, the President should call officials concerned to account. What happened to the budget for technology that should keep the facilities safe? What relationship obtains between the ministry and the military? What role has the National Security Adviser played in ensuring that proper action was taken to protect the facilities? Did the presidency take enough interest in ensuring safety of inmates and security of national assets under the ministry?  Why were those who committed grave crimes against the state kept at a medium security custodial centre when the country has maximum security facilities? We hope the probe of this national embarrassment that has been ordered will be conducted swiftly and action taken to deter further jailbreaks.