The National President of the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) Chief John Udeagbala has impressed on the federal government the need to ensure speedy rehabilitation of the nation’s refineries to end scarcity of petroleum products in the country. This is just as he observed that insecurity, lack of good road network, amongst other issues have compounded the challenges faced by businesses across the country. Udeagbala, who spoke to journalists at the sidelines of the grand opening of Right Choice Electronics ultramodern showroom in Aba, Abia State, explained that local businesses are still suffering from poor infrastructure, which according to him is stifling businesses in Nigeria. He observed that the government does not have enough money to finance capital projects, because of its commitment to petroleum subsidy payment to private petroleum importers. “At the moment our budget for capital expenditure is nothing. It is better we fix our refineries, otherwise we would continue to repeat these stories and we are tired of repeating it. It has been NACCIMA’s stand that the federal government should remove subsidies on oil. “Subsidy payment is infested with corruption and the majority of Nigerians are not benefiting from it. We use 26 percent of our crude oil export to import fuel, so this is the origin of our problem,” he observed.   Rite Foods fetes Nigerians at Ojude Oba     Stakeholders advocate collaboration for effective…     ‘Covid-19 made outsourcing more inevitable’   He commended the management of Right Choice Electronics for their tenacity to stay afloat, despite the dwindling economy. According to NACCIMA boss, this is the firm’s sixth showroom, in the South-South and South-East regions of Nigeria including: Port Harcourt and Uyo, Akwa Ibom States respectively. This is just as he urged the youths to embrace hard work, which according to him, is the only way to success. “Right Choice Group achieved this through hard work and not through stealing, kidnapping or ritual killing. This is the kind of success story that we want to continue to hear. My Lord Bishop made it clear that it is only through hard work that one can progress in life, there is no shortcut to wealth.” He commended security agencies in Aba for providing adequate security in the commercial city. Responding, Chief Ogochukwu Mgbii, Managing Director/CEO, Right Choice Group, explained that Right Choice Electronics was incorporated in 2007 as a limited liability company as a trading company has been consciously contributing its quota in societal development by creating job opportunities with six modern showrooms in full operation. “As a company policy, we equally engage in several humanitarian and community support in places where our businesses are located, as part of our corporate social responsibility,” he stated.