A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta State, Chief Hyacinth Enuha, has expressed optimism that Nigeria will become great again under the presidency of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. He said his confidence in Tinubu’s ability to provide the quality of leadership needed to bring to country to work again was reinforced by his choice of running mate The APC Presidential candidate picked former Borno Governor, Kashim Shettima as his running mate on Sunday. Enuha, in a statement by his Media Adviser, Nnamdi Ofonye, lauded the choice of Shetima, adding that he is a.man of deep courage. According to him: “My congratulatory message is not just coming on the heels of your emergence as the running mate to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu but for the fact that you have become a reference point to the belief that “loyalty and courageousness to a course one believes in pays”. “Before now, I had barely known you right from your days as the Governor of the Boko Haram devastated Borno state. All through your tenure then, you showed courage and fearlessness. You spoke up with energy and worked your talk as much as your powers could carry you. That was the much I knew about you then. I love men with positive guts and energy.   Tinubu, Lawan, APC Govs, others rally Osun for Oyetola     Man allegedly kills brother with rat poison over land…     PDP zonal treasurer resigns over ‘unjust…   “Fast forward to the runup to the APC presidential primary election, although we share same camp then as I was and still a core follower of BAT right from his AD days in 1999, what caught my fancy towards Shettima is his vast level of intelligence. I never knew he was that sound upstairs. “Each time they go out on consultation and intra party campaign, he never failed to leave his audience mesmerized with facts and figures. He never failed to take anyone as his prisoner down history lanes and leaving them chained down there in their own thoughts. “He loomed all through with that same courage and fearlessness each time he pours out multiple reasons why the delegates must vote Tinubu as the candidate. The rest and its outcome is now history. “Consequently, I know he wasn’t doing that with the mindset that he must be the Vice Presidential candidate, especially when the Northern Governors stepped in and in their usual ways, were believed to have cut a deal to be the ones to produce the VP candidate from amongst them. At least that’s how the PDP does it. “However, today, Kashim Shettima has been announced. Behold his hard work has paid off. Behold his loyalty to a course he believes in hook, line and sinker has paid off and above all, Asiwaju’s knack for identifying intelligent people to work with him has positioned Kashim Shettima and behold I present to you a sure intelligent, courageous, fearless and workaholic in coming Vice President of Nigeria”.