No life was lost in the fire outbreak that gutted the tank farm of Matrix Energy Limited at Ifiekporo, Warri South council area of Delta State on Friday evening. However, 12 persons have been confirmed injured in the incident. The Delta State Government made the disclosure after a delegation led by Commissioner for Oil and Gas, Prince Emmanuel Amgbaduba and his Special Duties counterpart, Mr. Johnbull Edema, visited the scene of the incident. The delegation, accompanied by the chairman of Warri South LGA, Dr. Micheal Tidi, said that the victims were receiving treatment at the Ogiame Ikenwoli Hospital, Ubeji. Speaking after an inspection of the affected area, the Commissioner for Oil and Gas said the delegation was at Matrix Tank Farm at the instance of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, to ascertain the cause of the incident and level of damage recorded. Stating that the state government will collaborate with the management of Matrix Energy and statutory regulatory bodies to investigate the cause of the fire, Amgbaduba added that once the report was ready, it would be made public.   Serena @ 40: I’m still in the game     Why we rejected Lawan, Akpabio’s nominations- INEC     Let’s put Nigeria first, APC urges at Eid-el-Kabir   “We are here at the instance of His Excellency, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. Our first impression was that the place was like a war zone. However, we thank God that no life was lost. “Preliminary report says 12 persons were injured and hospitalized, but we must understand that a huge investment was affected. We advise proper investigation should be done and avoid repeat occurrence”, the Oil and gas commissioner stated. Edema also called on youths and leadership of Ifiekporo to remain calm while investigation into the remote cause of the incident is unveiled. Tidi commended the company’s management and the people of Ifiekporo community for their proactive efforts that helped to quickly put out the fire. The Head of the Tank Farm, Oghale Oyibo, while conducting the delegation round the premises, assured that investigation into the incident had begun. She explained that the fire started about 7:05pm and was successfully put out at about 10:20pm through the collaborative efforts of firefighters, as well as members of the host communities.