Foremost automobile dealer and sole representatives of the Renault brand in Nigeria, Coscharis Motors Plc, has announced a free service voucher worth N150,000 for every Renault vehicle purchased from the company. General Manager, Renault Sales, Coscharis Motors, Sola Adigun, made this known during the just concluded Lagos Motor Fair. Adigun said: “We want to use the opportunity of our presence at this motor fair to announce to our customers and prospects that we will be offering a free service voucher worth N150, 000 for every Renault vehicle purchased from Coscharis Motors at this motor fair and afterwards.” Adigun mentioned that the free service voucher is one of the exciting giveaways, which Renault customers stand to gain from buying a Renault vehicle from Coscharis Motors Plc. However, the free service voucher offer promo extends beyond the just-concluded motor fair to all Coscharis showrooms across the country until July 30.   Elizade Auto Land launches JAC J7 Sleek     Stallion unveils ‘luxury’ MG HS     Auto CEOs, NADDC, others to discuss industry issues   Also still available for customers to have an easy access to purchase any of their preferred Renault vehicles is the finance scheme from the sister company, Coscharis Mobility that provides payment spread over a period of time after 30 percent initial deposit of the principal value. Also, General Manager Marketing and Corporate Communications, Coscharis Group, Abiona Babarinde said: “We are still assembling two variants of the Renault brand locally, at our assembly plant in Awoyaya, Lagos namely Logan and Duster respectively. Clearly, we have the capacity to add more variants to our local assembly line and hope that the time will soon come when the infrastructural deficit in the country will improve to give conducive business environment to investors like Coscharis that still believe in our nation Nigeria. Then we shall gladly increase the number of locally assembled variants and probably assemble all the variants that we market in the country. More importantly for us is that this gives us the opportunity to deliver value to the bigger economy in terms of job employment, among other economic advantages with the sustenance and expansion of the local assemblies across the country. Likewise, Coscahris offers trade-in option to customers who currently own a Renault vehicle and wish to exchange for a new model. Renault was one of the brands which put up an outstanding presence at the recently concluded Lagos Motor Fair. Five variants of the brand were put on display for visitors at the fair, including Logan and Duster.