The easiest businesses to start would be anything online because these they require minimal startup costs and one can easily control them. It affords you the opportunity to earn more profit and do less work over time. Dropshipping is an e-commerce model where you do not have to keep products in a store neither do you have to keep an inventory on goods. A dropshipper acts as a middleman between the supplier (who could be the manufacturer) and the consumer. The dropshipper doesn’t order inventory in bulk and doesn’t fulfill the orders in any way. The dropshipper transfers the details of the customers to the supplier and the supplier ships the products to the customer. In essence, the dropshipper make their money by selling the product at a higher price just as every retailer does. For example, if the price of a product on wholesale is $100, the dropshipper can sell it for $150-$200 making a commission of $50-100 easily. A dropshipper can dropship anything at all; human hairs, cars, lands, etc   Five movie stars who performed 2022 Hajj     10 major festivals in Nigeria     Post-VAIDS: JTB, FIRS begin enforcement on defaulters   Affiliate marketing simply means recommending useful products to people who need them. It is a programme created for affiliates to make good commissions from every sale to the customers. Affiliate marketing with expertnaire offers the best commissions on their digital products ranging from 40% upwards. To break this down further, affiliate marketing is a system where affiliates promote, advertise and create awareness in whatever form they choose about products sold online. There are many affiliate programmes available to people but in the case of Expertnaire, affiliates are paid weekly(fridays) depending on if a sale was made. Freelancing is a contract-based profession where instead of being recruited in an organisation, the person uses his skills and experience to provide services to a number of clients. In simple terms, freelancing is when you use your skills, education, and experience to work with multiple clients and take on various assignments without committing to a single employer. The number of assignments or tasks that you can take just boils down to your ability to deliver on them as asked from them. Freelancing usually involves jobs (called gigs) that allow you to work-from-home situations. Becoming a freelancer is just as easy as ordering something over the Internet. You visit sites that offer freelance jobs and tasks and take them on. WhatsApp marketing is a type of messenger marketing, which implies promoting a brand through WhatsApp. This channel helps brands reach an enormous audience, build strong relationships with customers, and increase sales. Another advantage is low cost of marketing and high conversion rate. All a person would need to cope with what’s app marketing and get a vast reach is to have “contacts”. Having enough contacts gives you an edge.