It was a gathering of egg heads in the oil and gas sector. For these stakeholders in a predominantly male dominated sector, the Nigerian Content Consultative Forum’s (NCCF) Diversity Sectoral Working Group Conference presented the opportunity to celebrate and further accentuate the women professionals in the sector. The conference, which held in Lagos, was themed: “Leveraging opportunities for women in the oil and gas industry.” According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), women make up 48 per cent of the global labour force, but only account for 22 per cent in it and 32 per cent in renewables. The Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Simbi Wabote, said the Board is committed to women participation in the industry. For instance, he recalled that in October 2019, the NCDMB announced that it would formulate gender-friendly policies aimed at increasing access to funding, award of contracts and support for research and development, for the benefit of women operators in the industry. He said since the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry Content Development (NOGICD) Act was instituted to get more Nigerians into the industry, there should also be special initiatives to encourage women participation in the sector. Wabote quoted statistics by the Global Energy Talent Index Report which indicated that there is a chronic shortage of women in the industry. He said: “It is estimated that women occupy about 50 per cent of non-technical positions at entry-level compared to only 15 per cent of technical and field role positions. “Gender diversity decreases with seniority with only a tiny proportion of women in executive positions. The percentage of women in the industry drops over time from 36 per cent to 24 per cent between the middle and executive level.” He said NCDMB will review its strategy on the Nigerian Content Intervention Fund (NCI Fund), adding: “Access to finance is very important and we will look at our policy to see how we can support women who are serious to do business.” The Executive Secretary assured that the Board would work with project promoters to ensure the award of  contracts to companies owned by women, including the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) Train 7 project. “Of the total number trained by the Board, women constitute about 20 per cent and we hope to increase the number to meet up the industry skilled labour demand,” the NCDMB boss said. The Chairman, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Limited, Mrs Margery Chuba-Okadigbo, stressed the significance of women in the industry, saying it is germane for growth. She saw the dire need for more provision for women in strategic positions to boost growth. “There is no better time to promote this forum than now, especially with the passage of the PIA,” says Mrs Chuba-Okadigbo.   I’ll not let you down, Adeleke tells Timi of Ede     Lagos steps down new abortion guidelines     Kuje attack: Senate shocked by no CCTV, porous security   Still, in 2017, the Board in partnership with the Bank of Industry (BOI), launched a $200million Nigerian Content Intervention Fund (NCIF) to provide low-cost and accessible credit to service companies. Wabote, in an interview last year, noted that almost 85 per cent of the fund has been accessed by Nigerian companies. It has about five products: equipment financing, contract financing, manufacturing, loan refinancing and community contractor refinancing. The loan interest rate, which is fixed at eight per cent with five years as repayment period and one-year moratorium, has enabled most companies to refinance their loans. The Governing Council of the Board at its meeting in June 2020 approved the expansion of the NCIF  from $200 million to $350 million. The Council chaired by the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipreye Sylva, approved that $100 million from the additional funds would be deployed in boosting the five-loan products of the NCI Fund. Similarly, the Council also approved that $20 million and $30 million  should be deployed in two new loan products – the Intervention Fund for Women in Oil & Gas and the Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria (PETAN) Products, which include working capital loans and capacity building loans for PETAN member companies. As part of the Board’s response to ameliorate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Governing Council approved the reduction of the interest rate from eight to six per cent yearly for four of the loans in April 2020. The Board also extended the moratorium for loans. So far, some companies managed by women have benefited from the NCI Fund because of the NCDMB’s deliberate actions to ensure that. Last year, the NCDMB and the Nigerian Export-Import Bank (NEXIM) rolled out a $40 million intervention fund for women entrepreneurs. Both partners’ equity contribution to the fund is shared equally.  The fund covered manufacturing, oil service contracts, environment management, leasing, logistics, catering and training. The target beneficiaries are firms where women hold a majority shareholding of 51 per cent or where at least 50 per cent of management are women or where the chief executive officers and at least 40 per cent of management are women. According to Wabote, the maximum amount that could be borrowed by a single obligor is $500,000. He said the tenor shall be up to five years and the applicable interest rate would be five per cent all-in yearly, fixed throughout the tenor of the loan. The maximum processing time shall be 21 working days from the date the applicant has provided the required documentation and applications shall be through the web. NEXIM Managing Director, Abubakar Bello, said the partnership with the Board fits into its framework for supporting inclusion as well as its strategy to grow the service industry in Nigeria and take it to the point of export to the West African region and other oil and gas economies. Last year, the NCDMB inaugurated the Diversity Sectoral Working Group (DSWG) at a virtual engagement of the NCCF, a body set up by the NOGICD Act to facilitate the collaboration of stakeholders and the development of ideas for the advancement of content. Wabote said the  SWG was a product of the Women in Oil & Gas workshop organised by the Board in October 2019 aimed at the Diversity SWG  to improve the participation of women in the industry as well as to promote all-inclusive gender policies. Stressing that Sections 57 and 58 of the NOGICD Act 2010 supported the creation of a platform for sharing information and to serve as a ‘think-tank’ to develop policies and implement frameworks that will achieve sustainable development of the content. The Chairperson DSWG, Mrs. Alero Onosode, commended the women in the industry for a platform to meet minds, make a case, and become a force for change in the lives. While conceding that women have achieved so much in the sector, Mrs Onosode urged the women to roll up their sleeves. She said: “The industry remains pivotal to the change that we want to see in our country and the world. The energy transition offers more opportunities to all women today. That change will only come when we get new creative energy around the table and new solutions to the problem ahead of us.” Mrs Onosode, however, cautioned that if anything new was to be birthed  in the industry, it would take the coming together of men and women. “We must face it with preparedness, resilience and fortitude. Now that we are getting ourselves ready, we must take our place now,” she said.