The shocking demise of a prominent chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, Kemi Nelson, during the week, served as a big blow to the political space. Nelson died after a brief illness. She was aged 66. Many who were shocked to hear about her demise, paid glowing tributes to her admirable personality. During her lifetime, Nelson networked with and enjoyed the patronage of intimidating circles of political bigwigs, while also mobilising grassroots voters – especially women. Many beneficiaries of her philanthropic gestures shared testimonies of how she used her life to affect people positively in the cause of her service to the state, her progressive political family, and even the country at large. The late Nelson was born to the family of Tinubu-Meredith and Laja on February 9, 1956. She had her primary school education at Anglican Girls’ Primary school Surulere and Anglican Girls Grammar School, Ijebu Ode. She was a teacher at Corona School Apapa for a short period of time before enrolling in Nursing and Midwifery courses at the University College Hospital Ibadan. Nelson began her political career during the President Ibrahim Babangida-led military regime in the late 1980s and early 90s when she joined the National Republican Convention (NRC), one of the two parties founded and funded by the government. During this period, there were not too many female participants in politics and she became exposed to party politics as she was entrusted with big assignments including the chairmanship of the defunct NRC’s electoral committee for the party’s presidential primaries in Osun State. During the administration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the governor of Lagos State, Kemi was Commissioner for Establishment, Training and Job Creation, Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation.   Fresh trouble for Tambuwal, Bala, others as court axes Umahi     2023: Buhari hails APC leaders over choice of candidates     Abubakar Aliyu and the never-ending power grid collapse   She was the party’s Lagos West Senatorial Candidate 1992, Chairman, Republican Electrical Panel (RECA) in Osun State, member, of the National Ways and Means Committee and the National Finance Committee of NRC, and a national delegate to the party’s convention in Port Harcourt 1993. Nelson was a close loyalist of the APC presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. She also served as Executive Director of the Nigerian Social Investment Trust Fund during the first term of President Muhammadu Buhari. Before the news of her demise on July 17, she was the South West Zonal woman leader of APC. She was the only female serving member of the Lagos State Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC). In recognition of her numerous achievement in Nigeria and women’s politics, Nelson was honoured with several awards including the Distinguished Florence Nightingale Fellow (DFNF) award, Order of Merit by Rotaract Club, Award for Excellence by the National Union of Lagos State Students (NULASS) and other awards that crown her efforts. When she clocked 65 last year, the Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, referred to her as an all-round paragon of fashion, politics, and just causes. Kemi— married to her childhood sweetheart, Adeyemi Nelson, would have her name engraved in the pages of women who played an active part in politics. Mourning her demise, Tinubu in a statement described her as a good woman who was dedicated and worked assiduously for the creation of a Nigeria of everyone’s dreams. “We shall never forget Yeye Nelson for her past sacrifice for Lagos and indeed Nigeria; she will be remembered for her commitment to the womenfolk and the downtrodden. “I will always remember Yeye for her loyalty, sense of duty, abiding compassion for humanity, and for always being there for us and our progressive cause,” Tinubu said. The All Progressives Congress (APC) Lagos West Senatorial District Candidate, Dr. Idiat Oluranti Adebule said Yeye Kemi’s death came at a time the party needs her most in galvanising support through the mobilisation of women across the country. “We’ll miss her contributions to the growth and development of our great party. She was a dedicated politician and a remarkable woman. She advocated and encouraged women’s participation in politics with great passion,” Adebule said.