Actor Kenneth Aguba has declared his intention not to just marry any woman but a virgin from Israel. Aguba disclosed this during a chat with the Port-Harcourt-based cleric Chibuzor Gift Chinyere. The cleric on July 5, came to the actor’s aid after photos of homeless Aguba in Enugu surfaced on the internet. He was not just relocated to Port-Harcourt where he was given a befitting accommodation but taken for medical checkup alongside a pledge by Chinyere to sponsor his wedding to any interested lady. Following the public notice by the pastor, listing the conditions of marriage to the actor, a number of ladies have been signifying interest but the actor insists on marrying a virgin from Israel. In a viral video, the cleric speaking to his wife and few people around opened up on what Aguba told him about his choice of wife. “What he told is that, he wants to marry a virgin,” Chinyere said. Confirming, Aguba chipped in, “No only that, Israel I will marry. Israel I will marry. I won’t marry …..” His choice of wife has elicited diverse reactions from social media users. Iheme Nancy stated: “see wetin de hungry this man..women we don see 99 e come remain 100..”   I’d rather patronise outsiders than friends – Actress…     10 Nigerian entertainers with traditional titles     Running mate: Funke Akindele unfit for leadership – Uche…   vanessastreats_ said: “Is this even a joke? This should be the least of your problems popsman.” official_melly14 wrote: “Na virgin from Afghanistan you go later see.” realofficialyemi stated: “See Alika wey dem just resurrect ooo.” adamazi_prisca asked: “Is he acting from a script or what because what is this?” big_realest said: “All this short people self, them don give you small help you come de find another thing.” ainadammy1___ wrote: “People wan help you, you dey talk your own condition….na wa oo makinwataiwo stated: “This man dey craze … So you fit marry isreal virgin before wetin come stop u… If wishes were horses beggars will ride” pinkk_mollyy queried “So this man get choice ???” deniran said: “Naso Oga, virgin wey never reach them for Israel na hin you wan collect inside abi.” yung_boss1 wrote: “Indirect way of saying that he is not interested to marry.” nekz_empire stated: “As Nigerian women reject am when he no get house and money…him don reject them back.”