Nigerians have been urged to patronise Made in Nigeria products to further drive growth in the leather sector. Speaking at a two-day 5th Lagos Leather Fair which was held in Lagos, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Mr. Adeniyi Adebayo, said patronising made-in-Nigeria products will boost its enonomy globally. According to Adebayo, Lagos Leather Fair over the past five years has created a solid platform where everyone within the leather ecosystem can meet up and hold conversations on how to move the industry forward. “The result of this has become very visible with the growing attention gained by the industry and increased collaboration amongst players. “For us as a ministry, we will continuously drive support till the potential of the leather industry is fully harnessed in Nigeria,” he said   Coalition promises to ensure victory for Oyetola     I’ll not let you down, Adeleke tells Timi of Ede     Four injured as PDP, APC supporters clash in Ede   Convener of the Lagos Leather Fair and Creative Director, Demo Handbags, Mrs. Femi Olayebi, said the fair is a testament to the value that the finished leather goods sector for the wider industry if properly harnessed. “For five years now, we have constantly provided a platform for leather and lifestyle enthusiasts and industry players to come together, to enhance visibility for the industry, whilst also championing conversations on how to move the industry forward. “Some exhibitors who have been with us from the very first edition have now metamorphosed into international phenomenons, driving a positive Made-in-Nigeria narrative on the global stage,” she said. While lamenting that issues such as copyright infringements, infrastructure constraints, skill quality gaps, and power, among others are major challenges facing the industry, Olayebi urged the government to create the right policies and an enabling environment for the industry to thrive. The fair featured masterclass conversations that addressed the challenges of cross-border payments for SMEs, the role of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AFCFTA) in aiding intra-African, and ways to enhance growth for businesses within the leather industry. Speakers were drawn from all sectors of the economy across finance, policy, manufacturing, and consultancy.