FEDERAL University, Oye Ekiti, Ekiti State, has warned its former registrar, Mr. Olatunbosun Odusanya, and the bursar, Mrs. Roseline Bolatito Akande, that their sack is irreversible. It said they have been replaceed by the university’s governing council. FUOYE’s lawyer Mr. Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa (SAN) told an Abuja Division of National Industrial Court that the sacked registrar and bursar had been replaced. The applicants were removed by the governing council following allegations of misconduct, which they denied. Adegboruwa said they could not come by way of interlocutory injunction against the university having done nothing six months after the case was filed to challenge the decision to relieve them of their jobs. Odusanya and Akande were dismissed in June last year. Dissatisfied, the duo approached the NICN to challenge their sack. They filed an interlocutory injunction to restrain FUOYE management and the council from appointing a substantive registrar and bursar.   Police recruitment based on merit, not politics,…     Buhari celebrates Amusan, Brume over World Athletics feats     FCT taskforce begins massive demolition of…   But Adegboruwa filed a counter-affidavit leading to the dismissal of the motion. The court adjourned till May 25 to enable the claimants to file their response. However, the claimants’ counsel, Benita Odigie, urged the court to allow them to regularise their processes. Justice E. N. Agbakoba had adjourned till July 19, where Adegboruwa argued that the interlocutory injunction would not fly. He said the claimants could not reverse an appointment which had been made to replace them following their sack effected a year ago. He added that should the claimants insist on re-presenting the interlocutory injunction, the defendants would re-present the counter-affidavit challenging jurisdiction of the court to entertain the case. Adegboruwa told the court that he was ready for a full trial not to waste the court’s time. Justice Agbakoba adjourned until October 25 for a hearing.