Basketball is one of those games that require a tremendous amount of skills, including dribbling, shooting, defending, and teamwork. Luckily, Nigeria Customs teams had enough of those parameters to reach the finals of the Mark D Ball Men’s Championship and defeat an immensely successful Abuja franchise, the Mo’Heat. But what was the tournament like, and how did Nigeria Customs manage to beat Mo’Heat which had no losses in the current tournament? Answers to those and other questions you will find in this article. But basketball fans know that such intense games like Nigeria Customs vs Mo’Heat take lots of emotional effort, which requires you to have a rest. So a good way to switch from basketball and spend your time relaxing is to play some online casino ca, enjoy bright slots, and prepare for new breathtaking matches! As many bookmakers were stating, Mo’Heat should’ve been a real leader during the finals of the Mark D Ball Men’s Championship, but something went wrong. Previously, they have been going through the tournament with an astonishing score with no losses. It is a pretty impressive result for a team that was formed just recently and had almost no training together. And it is important to mention that Mo’Heat has already faced Customs during the previous games and was able to beat them.   1height South African Fakaza Song Hub     CIG MOTORS ENTERS A NEW AUTOMOBILE SALES PARTNERSHIP WITH…     ASUS Introduces The World’s Most Powerful Gaming…   Even old basketball fans were experiencing enormous excitement during the last game of the championship. Proof of that can be a final score of 61-55, which can only be a sign of equal fighting. The first quarter of the game was equal and made fans of both teams pretty nervous. Thus, the score was 15-15, which means that Mo’Heat and Nigeria Customs approached the game very seriously and did not want to give away the title. The second and the third quarter had the same tendency as the first one. Players knew that such chances as being a winner of the Mark D Ball Men’s Championship were not falling to their hands every day. That is why the courage of the players was tough to be unspotted. And finally, the third quarter finished with an intriguing score of 47 points on each side. The last game’s quarter has felt very competitive, and the will to win was sparkling through every player on the court. But the game-changing factor was Nigeria Customs’ defense which allowed them to get ahead of their enemies by scoring six additional points. One of the best performing players was Ibe Agu, who was the captain of Customs, and D`Tigers star. He contributed to the win of his team with impressive 17 points. While his teammate, Michael Daramola, has managed to beat his score, getting 19 points. By the way, the same number of points were scored by Bright Akhuetie, the top scorer of the Mo’Heat team. And the last major scorer was Owen Michael, coming with a score of 13. Analytics state that Owen was the reason for the loss as he couldn’t make the most critical shots. After all, both teams showed us an outstanding performance and gifted viewers a breathtaking final game. In return for this spectacle, Senator Dino Melaye gifted Nigeria Customs with N300 000 and Mo’Heat with N200 000.