Promoters of GetBundi, an educational technology platform, are seeking a partnership with the government of The Gambia to make Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education and digital skills accessible to the country’s citizens, particularly the youth. Founder/CEO of GetBundi, Osita Oparaugo, made this known during a visit to Mohamadou Musa Njie, The Gambian High Commissioner Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to Nigeria. GetBundi was launched in Lagos to help equip youths across Africa with high-quality, engaging and accessible STEM education and digital skills. Receiving the GetBundi team in his office in Abuja, Njie, who is also The Gambia’s Permanent Representative to ECOWAS, said that STEM and digital skills are what all Africans, mostly the youths, need to thrive in the 21st century. “I totally agree with your platform’s direction that we should refocus our education, mostly post primary education, towards STEM and that everyone mostly business owners should posses digital skills,” Njie said. “Digital skills are what every African needs, mostly our youths, to thrive in the 21st century and, to make it more interesting, science technology and innovation which will guarantee job opportunities and competitiveness internationally for our youths is top on African Union agenda 2063,” he said.   ‘How we are combining education with vocational skills’     Statisticians decry poor data usage by govts     Bankers, academics to assess governance at book launch   The Ambassador thanked the GetBundi team, saying the President of The Gambia and the entire cabinet are committed to charting a new course for the country and STI is top on the list. “I will take your message to the appropriate quarters in The Gambia and work to ensure my people embrace this platform because it’s a direction its time has come and must be followed to build a better future for the young and industrious people of The Gambia,” he said. Oparaugo thanked the Ambassador for the opportunity to present GetBundi to him. “We recognise that to build an Africa beyond aid, our youths and business owners, mostly SMEs, should be empowered by an understanding and appreciation of science and technology so that they can overcome the many challenges facing the continent,” Oparaugo said. The GetBundi founder said the goal of the platform is to make STEM and digital skills learning across Africa accessible to all through technology, not just elite children but all students, poor or rich, boys or girls, internally displaced students and refugees. “We look forward to working with the government of The Gambia and indeed every government in Africa towards massifying STEM and STI skills across the continent. The benefits of this direction cannot be over-emphasised,” he said.