It will take some time, probably many years, before the obsession with politicians’ certificates abate significantly to allow sensible focus on issues and ideologies in Nigerian politics. The obsession, not to say the controversy that often accompanies it, will likely get worse in the months ahead before it gets better in years to come.  The list of candidates for the next elections whose certificates have either been misplaced or lost altogether is growing longer. Scrutinised properly, the list may in fact be much longer than anyone has imagined. Delta State governor and running mate to ex-vice president Atiku Abubakar in the 2023 presidential election, Ifeanyi Okowa, demonstrates why the obsession with certificates will not cool anytime soon. Defending himself against cynical politicians who mock his loss of school certificate as wrongful conduct, the Delta governor seized the occasion of an inspection of ongoing projects in the state to boast of his scholarly exploits. Said he: “On the issue of my certificate, I think it is a misconception. People try to play politics with everything. Yes, I lost my WAEC certificate, but I have the printout from Edo College, Benin-City, which clearly stated that I have distinction in all subjects. The Higher School Certificate was attached and it has been acknowledged by Edo College and the school put it out there that I made an ‘A’ `B’ `B’. I do not pride myself but it was very difficult to make such grade in higher school at that time. My high school result was the second best nationally in 1976, when I finished. So, many universities admitted me through Telegram as at that time, and I had to start making choices of which to accept. Of course, it’s very clear that I finished medical school at the University of Ibadan. I was 21years and some months; I was less than 22 years of age.” Well, after this deserved boast, it remains to be seen who else would summon the courage to attack Dr Okowa again. For not only did his alma mater attest to his bona fides, they appear proud of him. The governor is proud of himself too. Would his attackers like to show their faces, and be made to produce their own certificates, perhaps to see just how scholarly they were? It is unlikely. Dr Okowa has silenced his traducers; they are unlikely to produce even a whisper ever again on the governor’s lost certificates. As a matter of fact, his accusers will hope that no enterprising social media fanatic or traditional media reporter would go after them. Should they attempt to seek the governor’s accusers out and peruse their certificates, there might be some embarrassment. Dr OKowa has won this round; his accusers will need to restock. But there are many more out there, politicians and all, who have genuine cases of missing certificates. After changing residences a number of times, and despite the most meticulous bookkeeping, scores of highly placed people may fall within the bracket of officials who have lost their certificates and have not bothered to make good as Dr Okowa did with school-attested printouts. This columnist falls within that bracket. Not only has he done change of name, he has moved residence nearly a dozen times, photocopied his certificates and forgot some of the documents in the photocopiers, and fallen victim to thieves who rifled through his property and made away with documents. Admittedly, it is politics for desperate politicians and their lackeys in the social and traditional media to take advantage of the misfortune of their rivals and opponents. The grumblers may have had their fingers burnt in the case of Dr Okowa, but nothing will dissuade them from making similar attempts in the future. The tardier in bookkeeping the politician, the more versatile his rivals become in drawing him out into the open for ridicule. As the attempt to derail the campaign of the then Candidate Muhammadu Buhari in 2015 over his school leaving certificate shows, the effort often falls flat, especially considering that nearly all the politicians in question had gone on to much higher studies and educational successes. The certificate issue will, however, remain a weapon, albeit a weak and momentary one, in destabilising the campaigns of political rivals. What the certificate campaigners, some of whom have even morphed into birther critics, conveniently ignore is whether the victimised politician is competent to provide sound leadership, at least sometimes, if not nearly always, in contrast to the certificated politician. Dr Okowa boasted of his certificates, but critics should really interrogate his leadership ability, his administrative acumen, his behaviour under pressure and under fire, his adherence to ethics in governance; in sum, his character. These are the more germane virtues critics and certificate advocates have entirely glossed over. But as certain as day follows night, these critics, knowing themselves to have feet of clay, will be extremely reluctant to draw attention to virtues they do not, and probably can never, possess lest they be hoisted with their own petard.   Hold FG responsible for violence in Nigeria –Ortom     Two Catholic priests kidnapped in Kaduna     Gunmen abduct top NDDC official, demand N10m   It needed no expertise in soothsaying to anticipate that once the March 28 Abuja train attack terrorists freed their men from Kuje jail in Abuja, they would immediately begin to monetise the release of their captives held for over 100 days. By the last count, some 43 are still being held hostage in the terrorists’ dens. About seven were released two Saturdays ago after N100m (in dollars) ransom was allegedly paid for each hostage. The remaining captives are having a hard time shelling out such princely sums. The whole saga is mystifying. Some ‘300’ terrorists, perhaps ISWAP members and affiliates, were said to have swooped down on Kuje, a community and local council deep in the bowels of the Federal Capital City of Abuja, on June 6 and attacked the correctional centre in the town. It is not clear how anyone estimated the number of terrorists, for the attack happened in the night. But given the number of the attackers and the weapons they packed, it is shocking they waltzed their way through checkpoints, bypassed security establishments, including electronic surveillance and even direct alerts by human assets, and attacked the jail for more than an hour without any significant response. More shocking is the fact that after that bravura display, they took all their jailed comrades away without any hindrance, still waltzing through the town and the FCT, until they reached their dens. Satisfied that they had got their bargaining chips without any hassle or bargain, they are proceeding to profit from the misery of their captives. Yet, they are in Nigeria, obviously not too far away, and are laundering money and organising open shows in a country with intelligence assets capable of interdicting self-determination advocates in far-flung places outside the country. Any wonder some Nigerians smell complicity and conspiracy? As the terrorists push the envelope, more Nigerians are becoming convinced that there is really no official will to deal with the bandits and terrorists, whether they are Boko Haram or ISWAP.   It seemed a joke at first that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos had become so capricious that they would produce a starry-eyed ticket to fight the next governorship poll in the state. But there is no rabbit this social media generation cannot produce from their uppity hats. Surprise! They pulled one out last week when the PDP, leveraging on their social media presence, paired Abdul-Azeez Olajide Adediran, alias Jandor, with Nollywood sensation Funke Akindele, alias Jenifa. They will be contesting the Lagos governorship poll next year, hoping that their fame and notoriety, not to say the capriciousness of disenchanted youths, would get them the diadem. Lagos has a population in excess of 20 million. Governing them surely can’t be a cakewalk, nor entertainment. But Jandor and Jenifa, like the musician Davido and the dancing Osun senator Ademola Adeleke, swear it is entertainment borne on the wings of social media following.