Nine Tottenham Hotspur players have reportedly been placed on the transfer list by head coach Antonio Conte. Having guided Spurs to a return to the Champions League, the Italian has been provided with the licence to make sweeping changes to his first-team squad. Fraser Forster, Clement Lenglet, Djed Spence, Yves Bissouma, Ivan Perisic and Richarlison have all arrived at the North London outfit since the end of last season. At some stage, however, several more departures will take place to follow the exit of Steven Bergwijn, who remains the only regular from 2021-22 who has moved on to pastures new. According to The Athletic, Conte is prepared to see as many as nine players leave Spurs before the start of September. Of those who spent the second half of the campaign out on loan, Tanguy Ndombele and Giovani Lo Celso will be allowed to join a new team for the right price.   Preseason: Jesus hits hattrrick as Arsenal hammer Sevilla…     PHOTOS: Tobi Amusan, Sports Minister meet in UK     Okonkwo joins Alexandra from Arsenal   Ndombele has most recently been linked with Galatasaray, while Lo Celso is allegedly attracting interest from Villarreal and Napoli. Bryan Gil, who has returned from his half-a-season loan stint with Valencia, is also available to either go back out on loan or be sold should an attractive bid be made for his signature. Sergio Reguilon and Harry Winks have also been informed that they can find new clubs, with the former being linked with Barcelona and the latter attracting interest from several Premier League clubs. AC Milan have been credited with an interest in signing Japhet Tanganga who has been forced further down the pecking order by the signing of Lenglet.   Joe Rodon has received less game time than Tanganga since Conte’s arrival, and another report has revealed that the Wales international is on the verge of joining Rennes.   Either Emerson Royal or Matt Doherty may also leave Spurs, depending on any interest and offers that are made for their signature with Spence in line to become first choice at right wing-back.   While Spurs have a desire to generate funds to balance the books, they have already been further boosted by cashing in on Cameron Carter-Vickers and Jack Clarke.