The phrase – the rich also cry – perhaps best describes the crunch faced by the nation’s telecommunications operators as captured in the Nigerian Communications Commission’s (NCC) 2021 Subscriber/Network Data Annual Report. The report puts the operating costs of telecommunication companies in 2021 at N1.66tn from the 2020 figure of N1.4tn – a surge of 18.74 per cent. The report, a sort of testimonial about the intolerable cost of doing business in the country, seems to have validated an earlier sectoral report by the Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) on the basis of which the body had, in a letter, made a case to the NCC for tariff review. ALTON had in the letter specifically alluded to the economic recession in 2020 and the ongoing Ukraine/Russia crisis, both of which have resulted in significant increase in energy costs. From N225 per litre of diesel in January, it noted that the price rose to over N750 per litre in March – a staggering 233 per cent. And the fact that diesel actually accounts for about 35 per cent of operators’ costs, and also that the telecommunications companies have had to struggle with issues of its availability and the logistics of delivering it to sites. On the basis of the above, the body had suggested a 40 per cent upward review in the cost of calls, SMS, and data. That was two months ago. Presently, diesel price has since hit N900 per litre, with no signs of a let up.   Resignation not enough     Brutal resolution     The Ekweremadus’ plight   These are of course difficult times for businesses generally. Nigerians, it also needs to be said, cannot be said to be in the dark about the state of the economy, the fuel supply hiccups and the concomitant price hikes, not to talk of the biting inflation, all of which currently threaten to pull the economy to the abyss. For the telecommunications sector in particular, there can be no exaggerating the impact of the trajectory of diesel prices, given the sheer number of the cell-sites to be powered amidst other issues of network expansion and the imperative of securing vital equipment to preserve service quality. These are certainly hard facts – difficult to paper over. But then, these factors are neither exclusive to the industry nor their impacts could be said to be localised in any particular sense. Whether it is in manufacturing, logistics and services or even aviation, such have been the direct impact of the current crisis, not just on scale of operations but also on corporate bottom-lines to justify the call for one intervention or the other. We do agree – in a general sense – that industry-wide palliatives might be necessary to enable the different sectors to tide over the current storm. In any case, the same government, that has abdicated its sacred responsibility of guaranteeing macro-economic stability cannot, at a time of dire emergency, justifiably wash its hands off the consequences of one of its major policy failures. Measures to restore stability to the fuel supply chain and to address the rising cost of diesel have therefore become necessary if only to ensure that jobs are not needlessly lost to the current crisis. In the end, the nation is led back to the old but nonetheless pertinent question of why a leading crude oil producer would continue to rely on fuel imports and with it the many vagaries of supply and foreign exchange fluctuations. On the other hand, an upward review of charges, far from being an answer to the crisis, might in the end prove counter-productive, both in terms of its potential to further pour fuel into the current inflationary spiral, and in further shrinking the industry’s revenue. If we may dare to make the point: the sector didn’t come this far by opportunistic adjustment of tariffs but by innovation. Exploring such additional innovations to drive down costs would certainly be one fitting way to reward the loyal Nigerian telecommunications subscriber at this difficult time.