Richard Osikhena Oyatilemi, an engineer by profession with specialisation in weighing, coding and marking industry also markets major global brands from Germany, America and Italy. In this interview with Sam Anokam, the CEO of Rio-Weighing Systems Limited gives useful insights on the significance of weighing and more. Excerpts:   What is the significance of weighing machine to the economy? Weighing in general, can be traced back as far back as human started to trade together right from the days of trade by barter. You find out that there has been need for humans to measure what they are given and measure what they are given in return. If you are giving me rice and I am giving you beans, I can say I am getting two cups of rice for five cups of beans. This could be volume in nature but, as humans now went as far as to say instead of having them in a volumetric form, we can have them in weight kilogramme. You can say give me five kilogramme of rice while I give you 10 kilogramme of beans. At the end of the day, we now say we are no doing trade by barter anymore we want to buy in kilogramee. I can say give me 50 kilogramme of rice which is one bag of rice for certain amount of money. You can see that it is a bag of rice but you cannot conclude until you weigh that bag of rice and it weighs 50 kilogramme. This applies to drugs and every other item that we produce as humans and consume. What is the economic benefit of this weighing system? You can have it for a country, a state and for individuals or for families. For the country, you found out that some of our inter-state roads are pegged on the rate of trucks that can ply on some of these roads. You find out that certain trucks cannot ply certain roads because they can damage those roads. It costs a lot of money to have roads maintain and build and that is why during the administration of President Olusegun Obasanjo, he went as far as starting weigh bridges  to make sure that every inter-state road have weigh bridges on them on  such that if a truck is coming from one state to another, it would weigh at each of the toll gates so that you know the amount load it is carrying, the capacity of the trucks, the content and they pay a certain amount of fee at the toll gate for maintenance and rebuilding of these roads . These are international standards, not just applicable in Nigeria; even there have been an agreement to have these things installed in all ECOWAS countries. If you are moving from one country to another, all the trading done in these countries, you can at the  end of the day gather in volume the amount of trade en mass you have done with these countries. It helps for analysis, revenue collection, road rebuilding, and job creation. It also helps individuals and states to know the amount of raw materials they get, the amount that have been processed, and at the end of the day, the amount of raw materials the consumer himself is getting. The economic benefit is immense. You cannot sell, manufacture or produce certain items without weighing them. What are the challenges in this line of business? Weighing, marking and coding business in Nigeria is marred with one or two flaws here and there but majorly, the flaw that we have is the execution of these laws. Nigeria is a country of very good laws but our major problem is implementation. The laws in weighing and measures are completely copied from the British law right after independence. Though there have been few changes, the law is still superb. Between the law itself and its execution, you have humans. These humans are what have been neglected for a long time; you need to train these people, they need to keep abreast of the modern ways of handling these equipment because some of these equipment are used for trade purposes. Rio Weighing System has a certificate given by federal government that we can use to license a product that is used for trade purpose. If I come to buy a bag of rice and you give me a bag and say it is 50kg and I doubt its accuracy, reweighing it in  my presence does not guarantee its authenticity because, it there’s every possibility that scale itself might not be accurate. We have been licensed to be a third party checker of these equipment. If we check and it is valid, we can say this equipment is valid. It can also be used for economic theft. A noticeable unprofessionalism in humans is the act of not repairing some of these equipment that are properly certified, of which is commonly overlooked. It all sums up to execution.   Expert cautions on socioeconomic risk of cosmetic abuse     MFB marks 14th anniversary with fanfare, assures SMEs of…     How to reset Nigeria’s ailing economy, by expert   In the market today, you see marked expired products especially from those abroad, how do you determine which is fake or has not expired? Most robust economy make sure they limit the amount of importation that they have, it is the standard and it is normal, nobody allows any product to enter his household. It is because Nigeria as a country is more of an importation nation so far as you produce an item that is supposed to last for six months into the country have spent months into the country of production, spend another month or so in the port, stay another month in the warehouse and by the time it gets to the market, it is already expired. Normally items like that are not supposed to be in the country but we are here to make sure that products that are produced in Nigeria are properly coded in Nigeria. We have our coding machines here including our support system. We have technicians trained abroad and are continually trained by the equipment manufacturer on how to maintain, technically serviced and set up these equipment. When these equipment are set up in production line, it gives you accurate time, date, place of when these products are manufactured and tells you when it would expire as a product. It totally eliminates any form of fake products.  Those ones produced abroad with time and dates are coded abroad. Are you invited by producers to watch them produce their goods in order to code them or how do you work? By law, these products should be coded. NAFDAC is one of the monitoring agencies. We make sure our products solution is available to them so that they would be able to code and mark their products so that if it is in the market, it is easily traceable to them. One can go to anywhere and try to fake some of these products but their own has serial numbers and dates and fonts, there is a lot of differentiation there. If you have issue with any of their products, it can be traced to when it was produced. If not they will tell you that it is fake. How do you deal with fake products? We are not NAFDAC, we don’t trace fake products. We make sure these companies that produce can easily identify their products. we provide the machine for them to identify, trace and tell people without been there that this product has stayed six months with the retailer, it is no more fit for consumption. How will an average Nigerian check to know which is fake or not? It boils down to the execution. Apart from staff training, we also have mass education. When you educate people that any product that doesn’t have a proper coding or carry proper identification, it should not be consumed; it makes it easier for the consumer to identify these products- fake, expired or products that are almost expired.