The clerics accused of impersonating the leadership of the Christian body at the presentation of Senator Kashim Shetiima as the running mate to the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu have offered proof of their status as ordained clerics and founders of their ministries. They also clarified their position and denied being representatives of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) at the event. The attendance of the clerics had sparked media controversy as they were accused of being sponsored against the opposition of Muslim-Muslim ticket of the party by CAN. Addressing reporters in Abuja, Secretary of the Muslim-Christian Love Foundation (an interfaith organisation of religious leaders), Bishop Adams Abel King, said the clerics that attended the event never portrayed themselves as CAN emissaries. He also said their identification with Senator Shettima and the APC was informed by his transformation of Borno State, where he handled management of social relations, including the protection of rights for all regardless of religion, while he held the forte as governor.   Appeal Court seeks support over post- 2023 elections…     UPDATED: Buhari seeks Justice Ariwoola’s confirmation…     Interstate transporters begin 25 percent fare increase Aug…   According to him: “Our decision to attend the event was neither procured nor compelled; rather, we chose, freely, to attend due to our sincere and genuine desire to express our goodwill and lend our support to a man whose tenure as the governor of Borno State heralded unprecedented government support for the Christian faith in the region.” “We have a strong belief in his nomination. A leader’s faith is not, and should never be, the only marker of their ability to lead an inclusive government that respects and protects the interests of all, while also preserving their rights. “Senator Shettima is not a Christian, but his contributions to the well-being and growth of the Christian community in Borno State are, to us, enough reasons to regard him as a beloved brother.” “It is as Christ said to the crowd in Matthew Chapter 12 that anyone who does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother. This is the teaching of the Lord, as we understand it. And this is why we were proud to celebrate his nomination and identify with his leadership aspiration.” The bishop further said: “Although Senator Shettima took the mantle of the state at a difficult time marked by terror attacks and deadly insurgency, his mature, cautious, and decisive management of the state’s affairs helped preserved the social fabric that held several communities together and reassured members of the Christian faith that the government remained committed to their freedoms and wellbeing.”