Inspector General of Police (IGP) Usman Baba has ordered a ban on the use of police SPY number plates by vehicle owners across the country. The order is without exceptions. The development, the IGP said, is irrespective of whether it is authorised or not. The police boss stressed that all authorisations have been revoked indefinitely. The order, he said, is necessary to forestall the continuous disregard for traffic rules and regulations and other extant laws guiding road use by individuals hiding under the privileges of SPY police number plates.   Lagos Assembly denies passing Sharia law     Court rules today on Oyo deputy governor’s impeachment     Why LASUTH is helping Nigeria address shortage of…   Baba directed that police officers and officers of other security agencies attached to VIPs who use the SPY number plates should ensure prompt compliance with the directive or risk being arrested for violation of the order. A statement yesterday in Abuja by the Force Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), said the IGP also directed Commissioners of Police (CPs) in the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) as well as their supervisory Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs) to give full effect to the directive, as contained above. The IGP specifically directed the AIGs and CPs to ensure that all SPY number plates currently in use are confiscated henceforth. But he said the owners of such vehicles should not be arrested unless they are police officers or officers of other security agencies on escort duties. The IGP warned that while carrying out the assignments, officers must ensure that the rights and privileges of citizens are respected in line with the laws of the land and in accordance with international best practices. Adejobi said: “Other security agencies and members of the public are enjoined to cooperate with the police in this regard as the moves are aimed at strengthening our internal security.”