Senator Magnus Abe has declared he remains a member of Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu Presidential Campaign team after officially resigning from the All Progressives Congress(APC) in Rivers State. Abe, who spoke on a national Television Programme in Abuja Wednesday, said he left the party to seek fortune somewhere else. He insisted that although he has left the party, the purported letter of resignation circulating online does not originate from him. He said: “I have since left the APC in Rivers State but the letter circulating round is not from me. I am still part of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s family and have no issue with him whatsoever. “I am a part of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s political family and I’m also part of his own family, and that is a very separate thing, from the politics of Rivers State. “Yesterday, there were some funny letters circulating on the internet, that I have resign from the APC because Asiwaju refused to intervene in the politics of Rivers State, that is ridiculous, all politics is local, I have no interest whatsoever in the APC in Rivers State. “When people talk about resignation, how do I resign from the party I don’t even know who the ward chairman is, so I couldn’t have written a letter to people that I don’t know, what I know from the Constitution of the APC, and the constitution of the country is that there are several means by which you leave the party, and one of the means is by way of resignation.   Senate passes Electricity Bill     Seven Nigerian celebrities with honorary doctorate degrees     COEASU extends strike by three weeks   “So resignation is just one of the ways that are available to members to leave the party. “You can leave by resignation, you can leave by death, you can withdraw your membership, you can join another political party, the way the APC is sinking in Rivers State it makes no sense for any politician that has serious political interest in the State to remain in the All Progressives Congress in Rivers State. “I have no stake in the APC in Rivers State, I don’t know anybody that is in the entire executive of the APC in all the 319 wards in the State. I don’t even know who my ward chairman is neither do I know any ward ex-officio, officer of the party. I don’t have anybody who is running for any office in the APC in Rivers State that I know, except Asiwaju who is running for President. “I have absolutely no stake in the party in Rivers State and all politics at the end of the day is local. And so it will be irresponsible of me to stay in the APC in Rivers State and support a party in which I have no stake in their victory. “So it is clear to everybody who is watching the politics of this country that my future in the politics of Rivers State is not tied to the All Progressives Congress and so it is clear that I’m no longer a member of the APC in Rivers State as far as that goes, but the purported letter flying around wasn’t authored by me and I know absolutely nothing about it. And, it does not reflect my views and my opinions as far as the politics of Rivers State is concerned. “I have said in the coming days a lot of things will unfold but the issue of me and the APC in Rivers State I think that was decided a long time ago. “I don’t know why people are still speculating and writing letters on an issue that I have made public a long time ago that I’m not part of the APC as far as Rivers State is concerned”.