According to Statistics, 838 Nigerians were kidnapped in 2018 out of which 176 kidnappers were charged to court. Fast forward to 2021, over 2,500 Nigerians were abducted across the federation, including prominent individuals such as emirs, obas, clergymen, and academics. In addition, over N7 billion was paid by families, associates, and friends of the kidnapped victims as ransom to secure the release of their beloved ones. (a report actually has it that N20B was paid as ransom in 500 kidnapping incidents). Therefore, over time, a cottage industry has evolved into full stature before our very eyes, and its name is-kidnapping” – a newspaper editorial. As another evidence that this house has truly fallen (see “This House Has Fallen: Nigeria in crisis”, by Karl Meir – a vivid, chilling and absolutely down to earth account of Nigeria – Africa’s most populous, potentially richest, and most dangerously dysfunctional nation;  being, each year, with depressing consistency, declared the most corrupt, and now the most unsafe nation on the African continent” – Nigerians woke up this past week to the chilling directive by Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara state, Nigeria’s Somalia, that every citizen should own a rifle for personal protection. This, the governor said, was sequel to the previous Saturday’s attack on Mada community in the Gusau Local Council Area,  where bandits killed many people, wounded many and forced thousands to flee their homes. Expatiating further on the Governor’s directive, the Commissioner for Information, Ibrahim Dosara, explained that the decision was taken to ensure adequate security in the state.  He went on: “Government has resolved to take further measures to deal with the recent escalating attacks, kidnapping and criminal levies being enforced on our innocent communities. This act of terrorism has been a source of worry to both the people and the state government and to deal decisively with the situation, the  government directed individuals to obtain guns to defend themselves and that the government has directed the Commissioner of Police to issue licence to all those who qualify for it. The “government, he further emphasised, is ready to facilitate people, especially farmers, to secure basic weapons for defending themselves. Most surprising was the immediate reaction of the Chief of Defence staff who opposed the directive  claiming that the military had answers to the security challenges in the state. While there can  be no denying  the military’s yeoman’s efforts,  one expects that the CDS would see the peoples’ daily  existential, security problems to which the state government cannot be expected to close its eyes. A more positive approach should be a synergy like that between the military and the JTF which has achieved so much in the Northeast. Rather than oppose the  directive,  the  Chief of Defence staff should arrange appropriate training for the citizenry as, properly handled, it can actually do a lot to assist in confronting banditry. After all, Alhaji Zubairu Idris Abdulra’uf, a former Managing Director of the Kaduna State Media Corporation(KSMC), disclosed on national television this past week, that the people of Randegi, in the Birnin-Gwari emirate of Kaduna State, a farming community where bandits have collected over N400M in forced taxes to be able to go to their farms successfully dislodged bandits from the area. Why should a whole country be held captive by bandits in this time and age. Why would you not try something new if all you have been doing havent substantially solved the problem. The determined people of Randegi have proved that the Governor’s directive is doable. Afterall, it is not as if Zamfara state has been under- policed. On the contrary, it has witnessed a heavy police presence, yet with hardly any significant success. Wrote a columnist recently:”First was the stationing a full battalion of Special Forces in Zamfara. This was followed by “Operation Maximum Safety” with 510 police personnel and 40 patrol vehicles; Joint Intervention Team of about 1000 police personnel. There was the Nigerian Air Force Operation ‘Diran Mikiya’ and IGP Mohammed Adamu’s “Operation Puff Adder,” aimed not only “at taking the battle to the doorsteps of the criminals”, but to “rout-out, arrest and prosecute armed bandits, vicious kidnappers for ransom and cattle rustling gangs operating in some parts of the state.” What has become of all these that news strategies cannot be adopted? A civil rights activist, and former National President, Committee for Defence of Human Rights, Malachy Ugwumadu, recently observed that: “To a large extent, this directive signposts a critical stage in the deteriorating security situation in our country”. “What qualifies a country as a state, he said, is that the cohesive forces of that country is in the hands of recognised institutions of state and not in the hands of individuals”. “Where a government throws up its  hands, and directs the people to bear arms to resist terrorists and insurgents, then there can be no better definition of a failed state”. I cannot agree less. Why are we then in this state of utter helplessness in Nigeria? What makes us so very different from our neighbouring countries, especially those in the West African sub region? Why is Nigeria showing such a grotesque lack of leadership? Corruption has been a major cause, just as ethnicity has not lagged behind as it has underpinned Nigeria’s increasing unitarism. Succinctly putting his fingers on corruption as the bane of our beleaguered country, candidate Muhammadu Buhari in 2015, put it very aptly when he said that “if we don’t kill corruption, corruption  will kill Nigeria”. As he was saying that, the sum of $2.1B earmarked for security, in a country fighting an enervating insurgency war, was being  systematically looted by the high and mighty in the government of the day.  So bad was it, the country’s National Security Adviser had to be hauled before the courts. As you read this, the country’s Accountant – General, Ahmed Idris, is presently on suspension on allegations of looting N80B, just as a military contractor’s house was raided by an anti graft agency this past week with billions of naira allegedly found. Not a few Nigerians believe that we have not seen anything yet. To the all pervading corruption in security circles must be attributed the reason why the police in Owo, Ondo state, hadn’t a single vehicle with which to pursue those animals that mowed down 40 worshippers and wounded more in that  bestial, and gruesome, attack on the St Francis Catholic church  on 5 June, 2022. That beggarly situation is the lot of most police formations in the country, even as the federal government, inexplainably, continues to put it under its suffocating stranglehold. But if a major asset on which  the bandits leverage, is the many, and  humongous ungoverned spaces, aka forests, scattered all over the North, why has the Federal government made itself a stumbling block to the establishment of a state police system which, staffed by those who know the terrain much more than total strangers being posted to locations from far and wide, many with no knowledge of the local language, would have helped tremendously in reducing banditry and assorted criminalities? If as far back as 2016 Governor Ganduje of Kano state has supported the establishment of state police, and the APC committee on restructuring, chaired by Governor El Rufai of Kaduna recommended same,  just as North East governors have “joined their counterparts in the South to recommend state and community policing as well as sub-regional outfits to compliment the efforts of the military and other federal security agencies in addressing insecurity”, it can then be surmised, with considerable justification, that President Buhari is the chief opponent of state police. With this assumption in mind, and to be able to do a robust and objective article on the subject, I contacted two good friends of mine from the North. I wrote: “Hi –   Godwin Kienka: Why Nigerian sports is ‘going round in…     Onyekuru: I could stay in Galatasaray forever     Adesola Adeyemi: My experience on international runway has…   Please can you educate me on why the North, no President Buhari, hates state police, even with the horrendous killings in the North and the fact that the NGF, or at lesst, most Northern governors approve of it? I am also talking to some other people as I intend to write an article on the subject Thank you”. One of them, whose name I shall be at liberty to mention, only because he has not replied – unlike him – he hasn’t even read the chat dated 28th June – and here’s hoping he is quite well – is Tony Sani, a highly regarded elder statesman who has served, at different times, as Publicity Secretary, and Secretary, of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF). We have related for well over a decade and I hold him in great respect, even though I never cease from taunting him with his  being ever more solicitous of the Fulani than other Northern ethnics, including his own – he is from Nasarawa state – and I always background this charge with the way he bludgeoned then Plateau state governor, Jonah David Jang,  in his support for the settler Fulanis in the ferocious inter- ethnic conflict of that era. I wasn’t saying he shouldn’t support the settlers, but to just try be objective).. The other friend, a very brilliant gentleman I once described as a true Nigerian on account of his Pan- Nigerian views, and network, was rather too brief, making his  comment not particularly fit for purpose as I truly wanted to  be educated as to  what must have influenced President Buhari’s position that he could ignore the Northern governors. His position, as one can see, is analogous to his iron cast rejection of restructuring which I think derives from his belief that the North would lose many of it’s unfair advantages, were Nigeria to be restructured. Here is his comment: “Buhari and North West Muslim majority states are opposed because it would whittle down their domination considerably. All other northerners are in favour. We are doing fine but the provocations from the Muslim Hegemons in the North are getting to a point where push will come to shove or worse”. “May God intervene before things deteriorate further”.”Oratre fratres,  Oratre sine intermissiones”, meaning: Pray, brethren, pray without ceasing for, indeed,  we have reasons to be prayerful”. As I indicated to my two friends earlier, because I am always keen to learn, I have, for quite some time, been involved in discussions on the subject with somebody who should know: a very  honest, direct and straight talking, retired commissioner of police who  does not mince his words,  no matter the subject, no matter who and who is involved. I present below his views on the issue of state police and what he believes has held back its establishment.: “Re: Owo Church Tragedy. The only solution to these incessant attacks and killings is state owned Police. Let every State recruit, train and arm its own Police. Ondo State Police, fully equipped in every sense of it (not Federal Police stationed in Ondo state) would have easily faced, confronted and repelled those rag tag cowards. In fact they would not have come, if they knew what would have confronted them. It is a pity that we all prevaricate while innocent lives are being  lost and valuable properties destroyed. A lorry load of Amotekun without requisite arms, and other necessary equipment, cannot confront 5 or 10 bandits, who are fully armed”. “Let’s do the needful. Let’s stop lamenting. I don’t want to say let’s stop praying, rather I will say let’s compliment prayers with action. That’s what all the Good Books say”. “Since security comes first, let us ammend the constitution today, and bring Police under the concurrent list so that willing, and ready, states can start setting up their own Police”. “The results will be remarkable in one year.. Anything short of this is a waste of time and we will just be perambulating as Fela would say; waiting for the next disaster to happen.. On receipt of this, I asked further questions whereupon he wrote: “I have been on this state police matter for the past 20 years; right from while I was in service. Ask my colleagues in the Police and even in my Universities. In fact, my doctoral thesis is on Law and Community Police; a large part of which focused on state police. So this is not a question of getting those in authority to know. I dare say they all know. Don’t they enjoy same state police setting when they travel out ? They don’t want it for selfish, and hypocritical, reasons.. They want to eat their cake and have It. It is the same way they do not want to empower Local governments. I am repeating these, not because they will hear, but because I just cannot keep quiet. What will you do to wake someone who is not really asleep?  Yoruba will say: a ki i  ji apiroro. Eni sun ni won n ji. What exactly will knock sense into this country? I just don’t know”. “They” will not be able to appoint one IGP whose “powers” will cover the whole Country. Thus they will not be able to post their “Boys” to politicaly “strategic”, and economically “juicy” states like Lagos ,Ogun, Rivers “Anambra, Bayelsa” , Akwa Ibom etc.They wil not be able to have their “Boys” as Mobile  Commanders ,Area Commanders and DPOs in Shagamu, Onitsha, Warri, Aba, Port Harcourt, and other numerous commercial points in the South west and South South. The reasons are Legion”. I decided to write all these, even when I know it could rub some nerves, simply because of my concern for President Buhari for whose election, both in 2015,  and 2019,  I must have written over a million words, canvassing support. I am eager that he ends well, as well as  leaves a decent legacy. What the retired police commissioner wrote here is like hearing from the horse’s mouth and they point,  unequivocally, to the charge that the President terribly mismanaged the Nigerian diversity. He still has more than enough time to use his humongous stature within the appropriate organs of government, legislative and through the Nigerian Governors Forum, to ensure that state police will be one of the enduring legacies he will leave behind for Nigeria and Nigerians. By doing this, he would have killed two birds with one stone because he would, thereby, have solved the country’s security problems by more than half. I wish him well.