Reconciliatory efforts to get warring members of the Bauchi State House of Assembly to bury their hatchet and resolve their differences peacefully appeared to be progressing retrogressively, reports ‘Dare Odufowokan, Assistant Editor. For about two weeks now, the Bauchi State House of Assembly has been enmeshed in a festering leadership crisis that is threatening to destabilize governance in the Northeastern state. Trouble had started among the state lawmakers early in the month when twenty two members of the Assembly passed a vote of no confidence on the Speaker and other principal officers of the House following allegations of ineptitude leveled against the leadership by aggrieved some lawmakers. The aggrieved legislators took their anger and dissatisfaction with the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Abubakar Suleiman, and his colleagues further when they surprisingly asked him to voluntarily resign his position alongside the other principal officers or risk being impeached. The lawmakers, who claimed to have enough members on their side to secure the needed number of lawmakers to impeach Suleiman, urged him to tow the path of honour by resigning his position and allow for the emergence of a new leadership. The Nation gathered the embattled Speaker, who also leads the Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures of Nigeria, as National Chairman, is currently out of the country in Saudi Arabia, performing the holy pilgrimage in his capacity as the Vice Chairman of the state’s 2022 Muslim Pilgrimage delegation to Saudi Arabia. According to some of his close associates, who spoke on conditions of anonymity, he is being expected back in the country soon. “The Honourable Speaker is currently in Saudi Arabia as the Deputy Leader of the pilgrims from Bauchi state. He is on official state assignment and this is known to all the lawmakers. That is why many people are surprise that some of them are plotting to remove him in his absence. The pilgrimage is an annual thing that is known to them all and they know exactly when he will finish over there and return to the state. If they have questions for him to answer they should have waited for him to return from pilgrimage,” an aide told our correspondent. Sources within and outside the Assembly however confided in The Nation that the Speaker has no plan to heed the call on him to resign. According to an aide to one of the principal officers, Hon Suleiman has reached out to his loyalists among the lawmakers from his Saudi Arabia and they have assured him that the aggrieved lawmakers do not enjoy the support of majority of the legislators in their quest to change the leadership of the Assembly. “Assured of his position as Speaker by his colleagues, the Speaker is concentrating on his assignment in Mecca,” he said. Meanwhile, lawmakers opposed to the Speaker are intensifying their efforts to secure the required number of signatories in their bid to oust the Speaker. The Nation gathered that the angry lawmakers, who consist of both members elected on the platforms of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC), have been meeting within and outside the Assembly following the passing of a vote of no confidence on the leadership of the Assembly at a plenary two weeks ago. “The business of legislation follow laid down rules and regulations. That is what we are concerned about. Leave those who believe in the power of brute force and propaganda to continue. We are sure that there is no way the minority will succeed over the majority. This is not a personal issue. If you are representing people on seat and the people say they don’t want you there again, it is a simple matter. You have to leave the place and allow the person they want. Twenty two members of the Assembly passed a vote of no confidence. What is left? He should resign,” our source added. The Nation also gathered that efforts by prominent indigenes of the state to intervene in the matter and broker peace have been refuted by the gladiators. It was gathered that some concerned stakeholders are waiting for the governor of the state, Senator Bala Mohammed, to return from Saudi Arabia where he is also performing the holy pilgrimage. This follows several failed attempts to reign in the warring lawmakers. “It appears there is a plan to force the Speaker out at all cost. Many people have tried to make peace without success. Party leaders from both PDP and APC have called on the lawmakers but the two factions have continued their face-off . “It is of concern that the supporters of the two camps are now clashing across the state capital. This is not good and everybody is worried. Coming at a time when electioneering campaign is about to start, the governor have said he will not fold his hand and allow the crisis to get out of hand,” another source said during the week. Meanwhile, The Nation gathered that a group of prominent indigenes of the state has again reached out to the two camps during the week on the need for a peaceful resolution of the crisis. “The situation now is that we are waiting for the return of the Speaker. Once he returns, the issues being raised will be addressed and I can assure you that it will be the end of the crisis. What we have on our hand is a situation where lawmakers across party lines are disagreeing with the leadership of the House. We need to carefully address the issues,” he said. There are thirty one elected lawmakers in the Bauchi State House of Assembly. Suleiman’s political party, the ruling PDP, currently has fifteen members in the House while the opposition APC has sixteen members. The Speaker, who was elected on the platform of the APC, had last April, decamped into the PDP. Some claims by the aggrieved lawmakers have it that the twenty two members asking the Speaker to quit his position are made up of fifteen APC lawmakers and seven PDP members.   Suleiman’s sins Leading the group of angry lawmakers is the incumbent Deputy Majority Leader of the Assembly, Hon. Baballe Dambam, an APC legislator who represents Dambam/Dagauda/Jalam State Constituency in the Assembly. He openly declared that the leadership of the Assembly under Suleiman has not lived up to the expectations of the members of the House. “The leadership of the House had failed in its responsibility to the members. That is why we are calling for a change. We want them, including myself, to voluntarily resign from their various offices or be impeached any moment from now,’ he had said. Hon Dambam, while addressing journalists at the end of the meeting at the Assembly complex, when the crisis started, said, “After our meeting held today, Friday, 1st July 2022, 22 members of the Bauchi State House of Assembly resolved to pass a vote of no confidence on the leadership of the House from today. We consider that as it is today, there is no leadership in the State House of Assembly, I am among the leaders but we feel that it is the right time and we must do it. We have therefore passed a vote of no confidence on all the leaders of the Bauchi State House of Assembly. “We are calling on the leaders of the Bauchi State House of Assembly to honourably tender their resignation letters to the Clerk of the Assembly. That will allow the Honorable House the opportunity to elect its leaders in order to forge ahead.” While adding their voices to Dambam’s, some other aggrieved lawmakers accused the leadership of the House of gross incompetence and appealed to Governor Mohammed, to be neutral in his handling of happenings in the House, insisting that contrary to claims in some quarters, their action was not, in any way, meant to sabotage his government. Checks by The Nation revealed that the current move to oust Suleiman was sparked by his alleged improper handling of Hajj slots given to the Assembly by the state government. Sources within the House told our correspondent that the Speaker had favoured his allies in the Assembly over and above those he perceived not to be loyal to him. “So much so that he overlooked some principal officers and gave slots ordinarily meant for them to his cronies in utter disregard for house rules and traditions,” a source claimed. Beyond that, it was also gathered that many APC lawmakers are still angry with Suleiman for dumping the party for the PDP. “He lost the support of the APC lawmakers when, without consulting with most of them, he crossed over to the PDP just to please the governor and get a return ticket to the House in 2023. They have refused to forgive him and that explains why most of those calling for his removal now are APC lawmakers. They also see it as an opportunity for the APC to regain leadership of the House as they are still in the majority,’ our source said.   IPOB demands Senator Bulkachuwa arrest     Fayemi sacks political appointees     FEC wishes Osinbajo quick recovery   After weeks of speculations, denials and keeping mum, Suleiman finally dumped the APC and joined the ruling PDP in the state last April. Before then, speculations have been rife that the Speaker, who was supported by members of the PDP in the House to emerged Speaker in a controversial manner which led to serious rancour for months, was planning to defect. After weeks of speculations, denials and keeping mum, Speaker of the Bauchi State House of Assembly, Abubakar Y. Sulaiman, has finally dumped the All Progressives Congress (APC) under which banner he was elected in 2019 and joined the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. Speculations have been rife that Abubakar Y Sulaiman who was supported by members of the PDP in the House emerged Speaker in a controversial manner which led to serious rancour for months before tension was doused. He had said his decision to dump the APC for the PDP was informed by the recognition of the exemplary leadership style of the Governor Mohammed as well his commitment to transform the state without neglecting any section. He stressed the need for a good relationship between the arms of government to allow for formulation and implementation of policies and programmes that will ensure the development of the State.      Counter claims But some members of the Assembly have been debunking claims that twenty two lawmakers want the Speaker to resign. According to those supporting the Speaker are more in number and that explains why the other camp was unable to move a motion for the removal of the Speaker. A lawmaker who spoke with our correspondent claimed that the move to oust the Speaker is being fuelled by sponsored APC lawmakers who are angry that Suleiman decided to join Governor Mohammed in PDP. “The Speaker took a decision in the interest of the people of the state. He sacrificed his personal political preference for the development of the state when he decided that fort eh smooth running of Bauchi, he needs to be on the same page politically with the governor. There is no way he will be opposing the manifesto and plans of the ruling party as the Speaker and governance will not suffer. He made the move after thorough consideration in the interest of the state. And don’t forget that he was a member of the PDP before joining the APC,” he said. A member of the House, Hon. Umar Abdulkadir, had insisted that Suleiman remains the Speaker of the Assembly and cannot be impeached because he enjoys the support of the majority still. The member representing Kirfi State Constituency in the Hosue, accused those calling for the resignation of the Speaker of not having any concrete allegation against Suleiman and other principal officers. According to him, it is unfortunate that the only thing the aggrieved lawmakers are talking about is Hajj slots. He wondered how that affects the governance of the state. “Now, they are talking about Hajj. Is that a reason to call for a change in leadership? Is it a right or a privilege? The people listening to these people have to understand what the issues are. Pilgrimage slots for lawmakers, is that a right? Let me explain. It is not a right, but a privilege. The rules are there. The relevant laws; go and check them. Is it a provision that the state government should give honorable mem bers Hajj slots? Let the people check, there is no provision on that, it’s just a privilege that lawmakers enjoy when provided,” he said. Speaking further, he added that many Nigerians across the country missed the chance to go to Saudi Arabia for this year’s holy pilgrimage due to circumstances not caused by any state or government. “The situation is not peculiar to Bauchi state alone. Nigerians across the country missed the chance to go to Saudi Arabia for this year’s holy pilgrimage. It is in the news everywhere. I read in the papers that over 1000 intending pilgrims from Kano missed the opportunity to go to Saudi Arabia for this year’s Hajj. It is not Bauchi alone that is affected,” he stressed. He assured the people of the state that Suleiman will remain the Speaker of the House as he has not done anything to warrant his removal. In his opinion, the Speaker has been very diligent and fair in his handling of the affairs of the House. He insisted that it will be unfair for members of the House to allow his removal by people who are displeased with his political affiliation. “It is not true. They don’t have twenty two lawmakers with them. About ten of our members are outside the country on Hajj. So where are the twenty two members with them,” he queried. But one of the aggrieved members during the week said they have nominated new leadership of the House to be headed by one of them whose name he refused to mention. According to him, once they gain entrance into the hallowed Chamber of the Assembly, they will unveil the new principal officer of the House. He vowed that there is no going back in the determination to change the leadership of the House this time around. “That is why we are explaining to the governor to be neutral in this matter. It is not in any way targeted at him or his government,” the lawmaker said.   Growing tension Meanwhile, the crisis took a violent turn last Sunday when some yet to be identified persons reportedly forced their way into the Assembly Complex at at night, with tyres, fuel and other objects with the intention of setting the Complex on fire. Security men on guard at the Assembly had raised alarm afater they could not prevent the hoodlums from gaining entrance. Armed security personnel later arrived to disperse the suspected arsonists. The Special Adviser on State and National Assembly Liaison to the Governor, Sani Moham med Burra, confirmed the incident to reporters. “Immediately I was contacted, I informed the State Commissioner of Police on behalf of the State Government for necessary and prompt action. He too immediately mobilized personnel to the Complex to ensure that no damage is done. As you are aware, the crisis is that of the leadership of the House, not against the Executive. We are trying to pacify the 22 lawmakers to wait for their colleagues who are presently on pilgrimages to Saudi Arabia and Israel before they will do whatever they want to do”, he explained. Earlier, another set of hoodlums had allegedly attacked some members of the assembly in a guest house, smashing cars and destroying properties in their sight. They had stormed the guest house located a few meters away from the Government House, where the lawmakers were holding a meeting and attempted to disperse them. Some of the lawmakers present at the guest house were injured in the melee that ensued. It took the arrival of security agents for the hoodlums to leave the lawmakers alone. Honourable Ado Wakili representing Burra Constituency was among members of the Assembly attacked by the hoodlums. “They really turned everything upside down. By the time we came out, they had smashed all our cars and the windows of the house. We were peacefully holding a meeting when they attacked us,” he explained. Meanwhile, security operatives have taken over the State House of Assembly complex following the failed attempt by suspected arsonists to set the complex ablaze and the attack on lawmakers by thugs. Currently, a combined team of security, comprising men of the Nigeria Police Force, NPF, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, NSCDC, the Department of State Security, DSS, and the Nigerian Army, has taken over the complex. Burra, while confirming the development in a terse statement, said: “Just to inform you that some unknown persons last night attempted to burn the Bauchi State House of Assembly Complex. As a result of which security agencies have taken over the place to avoid breakdown of law and order. This is to avoid (prevent) the journalists from giving wrong side of the story please.” Will the Speaker and other principal officers survive the putsch against them? Time will tell.