Nigeria’s Super Falcons continued with their record of FIFA World Cup appearance after securing a spot in the next FIFA Women’s World Cup in Australia and New Zealand after edging Cameroon 1-0 in the quarterfinal of the Women’s Africa Cup of Nations taking place in Morocco. Rasheedat Ajibade’s brilliant header in the 56th kept the Falcons in the competition as well as kept their 10th title ambition alive in Casablanca. After a pulsating first half with both sides struggling in front of goal, the 22-year-old Atletico Madrid striker broke the deadlock to net her third goal of the tournament as well as earned her the best player of the game award. All four teams that make the semi-finals at the ongoing continental championship in Morocco would pick automatic tickets for the Women’s World Cup, while the four losing quarter-finalists will have a mini-tournament to pick two countries that will go for a playoff tournament next year. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated the Falcons for defeating their Cameroonian counterparts and booking a slot at the FIFA Women’s World Cup in 2023.   Wilder wants to fight winner of Joshua –Usyk rematch     Ejuke: why I joined Hertha Berlin     NPFL: Remo Stars, Kwara United in titanic race for third…   In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, President Buhari lauded the team for its spirited performance, assuring both the players and their handlers that the whole country is behind them. “President Muhammadu Buhari congratulates Nigeria’s Female Football team, the Super Falcons, for qualifying for the Women’s World Cup in Australia and New Zealand in 2023 after their emphatic quarter-final victory at the ongoing Women’s Africa Cup of Nations (WAFCON) in Morocco. “The President lauds the spirited performance of the team in the tournament and for maintaining its dominant posture as undisputed champions of the round-leather game and most successful international women’s football team in the continent. “Having won the tournament twice in 2016 and 2018, under this administration, the President assures the girls and their handlers that the whole nation is strongly standing with them and will continue to cheer them on until the final whistle in Morocco,” the statement added. Falcons are expected to face host – Morocco in the semifinal of the championships on July 18.