Having failed to punch their way to Olympic glory in the last Olympic Games in Tokyo, Nigerian boxers are targeting medals at the Birmingham Commonwealth Games when they step into the ring, OLUWAMAYOMIKUN OREKOYA reports . Team Nigeria failed to attend the African Olympic Qualifying Tournament in Senegal in 2020, which meant for the first time since 1976 no boxer from the country qualified for the Olympic Games. Despite the recent set-backs boxing has gone through in Nigeria, Team Nigeria has a proud boxing history in the Commonwealth Games as the country t always wins at least a medal in any Games. The last Games held in Gold Coast Australia, Nigeria won two medals in the boxing event. Millicent Agboegbulem and Yetunde Odunuga won the bronze medals in the Women’s Middleweight and Lightweight events respectively and the Game held in Glasgow in 2014, the country went home with three bronze medals. Team Nigeria will present nine boxers, four men and five women, for the Commonwealth Games which is scheduled for July 28 – August 8 in Birmingham. The men boxers include Abdul-Afeez Osoba (Light middleweight), Adeyinka Benson (Middleweight) Innocent Ehwarieme (Light heavyweight) and Ifeanyi Onyekwere (Super heavyweight) while the women’s  are Yetunde Egunjobi (Light flyweight), Elizabeth Oshoba (Featherweight), Cynthia Ogunsemilore (Lightweight), Bolanle Shogbamu (Light middleweight) and Jacinta Umunnakwe (Middleweight). For Abdul-Afeez Osoba, Birmingham would give him a chance to show to the world his boxing skills. With an Africa games silver medal already safely tucked inside his bag, the 26-year-old pugilist now has his sights firmly set on clinching gold on his first try at the global stage while reckoning there would be tough competition at the event. “Competition at this stage is strong, but it is about my own preparations that give me confidence, I will get a medal this time round,” Osoba told NationSport shortly before he departed for the United Kingdom. “My practice and preparations for the Commonwealth Games are going really great. We were in Abuja for the past month and had nice preparations there. Earlier, there used to be an issue of the weather in England. I am adjusting to the weather here,” he added. Osoba, who will be competing at the Light-middleweight division, is aiming to be the first man to win a boxing Gold medal after Jegbefumere Albert won the Light heavyweight gold in the 2002 Games in Manchester. Osoba will start his Commonwealth Games campaign next Wednesday, revealed he would have turned professional but decided to bid his time because he had yet to compete for Nigeria at the International level.   Preseason: Jesus hits hattrrick as Arsenal hammer Sevilla…     PHOTOS: Tobi Amusan, Sports Minister meet in UK     Okonkwo joins Alexandra from Arsenal   He said: “If I’d  wanted to go pro, I could and I would but I still have dreams as an amateur and I will wait to make any decisions until after the Games. “There are lots of opportunities for young Nigerians in boxing. I go back to my old club now and again, and I see a lot of young kids coming through, so I think there is a lot of hope for the next few years if we manage them properly. “I want to extend my gratitude to the Nigeria Boxing Federation for their faith in me to represent our country once again, and also to all our people in Nigeria for their never ending support and prayers, and to my family for always backing me no matter what.” Osoba, who revealed his role model in the late boxing legend Mohammed Ali, started boxing at an early age to curb bullying and cites his brother as his first boxing coach. He would later go one to represent Lagos state at National Sports Festival and won the prestigious Lagos Governor’s Belt, Nigeria’s premier amateur boxing tournament, in 2019. “I attended Al-Amir Nursery and primary school Bariga, St-Luke’s Junior Grammar School Bariga, Government Technical College’s Agidingbi Ikeja, and Federal College of Fisheries and Marine Technology, Victoria Island Lagos,” he further said.”I studied electrical installation at Government Technical College and also studied Marine engineering (a year course) at Federal college of fisheries and Marine Technology. “I started boxing at the age of 13 because of self-defense and where I was raised (Bariga) you must try to learn some self-defense to defend yourself from bullies or touts. “My brother was my first coach  and he gave me the foundation of boxing before he travelled abroad. “My role model is Muhammad Ali I love his style of boxing and he always inspired me as a person” Yet in a sport that has traditionally attracted more males, Cynthia Ogunsemilore is among the growing number of  women boxers in Nigeria. Ogunsemilore  who is already in Birmingham, is proud to be part of Nigeria’s contingent to  the Commonwealth Games as one of the country’s five women boxers in the event. “We need to have more female athletes, including boxers. I think females are more focused than males,” Ogunsemilore noted.