Seven new ministers yesterday took their seats in the Federal Executive Council (FEC), following their swearing-in in Abuja by President Muhammadu Buhari. They are Umana Umana (Niger Delta Affairs), Henry Ikoh (Minister of State for Science and Technology), Umar El-Yakubu (Minister of State for Works and Housing), Joseph Nkamah (Minister of State for Health), Goodluck Opiah (Minister of State for Education), Odum Odi (Minister of State for Environment) and Ademola Adegoroye (Minister of State for Transportation). The new ministers replaced those who resigned to contest for various elective positions. They were screened by the Senate last week. Also, President Buhari reassigned former Minister of State for Health, Dr. Olorunnimbe Mamora, who is now minister of Science and Technology, and his Transportation counterpart, Senator Gbemi Saraki, who is now minister of State for Mines and Steel. The minister of State for Environment is now Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs. The minister of State for Works and Housing is now minister of Transportation. Speaking during the brief swearing in ceremony, which was held inside the Executive Council Chambers of the Presidential Villa, shortly before the week’s FEC meeting, the President congratulated the new ministers and urged them to discharge their duties faithfully. He urged them to consider their appointment as a call to duty, which demands diligent service to the nation. The president reminded the new ministers of his administration’s cardinal objectives of improving the economy, fighting corruption and ensuring infrastructural development. He advised them to take wise counsels and work closely with permanent secretaries in their various ministries.   Agenda for Umana: Stakeholders in the Niger Delta region advised Umana to avoid the pitfalls in the ministry and the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The Convener, Southsouth Reawakening Group, Joseph Ambakederimo, in a statement in Abuja, said the deployment of Umana has brought a breath of fresh air to the troubled Niger Delta region. He said: “The most important issue facing the Niger Delta region now is dearth of world class infrastructure. Therefore, there is need to look at this direction and revisit the Niger Delta Development Master Plan and where necessary, begin the process of implementing the immediate items in the Master plan that can bring some respite to the region.” “We will admonish the minister to avoid the pitfalls that abound in the Ministry and the NDDC, which he is going to superintend. The region has been stagnated in real growth in terms of infrastructural development and human capacity building which goes contrary to the set out objectives. “Going further, we urge the Minister to as a matter of national emergency quickly inaugurate the substantive board already screened and approved by the Senate in order for the board to hit the ground running. We are hungry for the NDDC to be brought back to its former glory. “The era of when NDDC letter of contract award is like a “hot cake” must be brought back and this can be achieved by the minister working with all stakeholders. Also of importance is the payment of contractors, some whom have been owed upward of five years.”   Fed Govt: petrol scarcity will linger until full…     Kuje prison: 64 Boko Haram suspects escape after attack     Kuje: Day terrorists wreaked havoc   The minister assured that he will be result-oriented and impactful in the short time he will be spending in the ministry. He said: “Though the time is short, we can hit the ground running by making the necessary impact, we’ll be driven by results.” Umana spoke at the reception ceremony held in his honour by the staff of the ministry. In a statement by the ministry’s Director of Press, Deworitshe Patricia, the minister emphasised that it is time to work to achieve the ministry’s target in line with its mandate. The Permanent Secretary,  Olufunso Olusesan Adebiyi, an engineer, assured the minister of the unalloyed commitment of the management and staff to work as a team in ensuring that his target and set objectives are achieved. He said: “If you are to achieve your set objectives and looking for people who will cooperate with you in this regards, I present them to you. I am not sure you will have a better team like this anywhere else”.   No time to waste, says Opiah The Minister of State for Education, Opiah, said he would deploy resources in delivering democracy dividends to Nigerians. Opiah, according to a statement by his media office in Abuja, said he would join other colleagues to build on the existing standards and establish modalities for growth in the system. Opiah said: “President Buhari has informed us that we have much to do, hence, I am prepared to move into action quickly. “There are key areas that will be of importance in line with the desire of President Buhari’s administration aimed at improving on the quality of education Nigerians get. While appreciating the President for the opportunity to serve, Opiah expressed gratitude to the Governor of Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodimma, for his support.   Akpabio congratulates Umana Former Minister of Niger Delta Affairs Senator Godswill Akpabio congratulated Umana on his appointment. Senator Akpabio is confident that the peace currently pervading the region particularly, the Southsouth zone, shall be sustained by the duo of Umana and the Minister of State, Sharon Ikeazor. In a statement by his media aide, Jackson Udom, he lauded President Buhari for finding Umana a worthy replacement and believes that his track record of performance when he served Akwa Ibom State as Commissioner of Finance and later, the Secretary to the Government will come handy in the discharge of the new responsibility bestowed on him.   Story By Bolaji Ogundele, Sanni Onogu and Okodili Ndidi, Abuja