American model and TV personality, Amber Rose has described the account of Jesus’ death and resurrection as crazy, ludicrous and manipulative. Amber, during a chat with Raquel Harper on “It’s Tricky” podcast expressed disbelief in the existence of God. Responding to the question about if she believed in God, Amber stated; “Do I believe in God? What do you mean by God? Like a higher power that was like, ‘here’s people, here’s earth and here’s the planet’. No!” “I more so believe in science than like an invisible entity named God, was like let there be light! It just seems farfetched to me.” Speaking about the death of Jesus Christ, she said: “I just don’t believe that Jesus died and came back to life for my sins. I just believe that’s crazy. That’s ludicrous. I believe it’s manipulative.   One year after viral burial Obi Cubana eulogises mom     Fela, Keith Richards inspired my career – Highlife Soes     There’s still hope for Nigeria – Davido   To the media personality, science and evolution are more logical than Christianity because the scientific explanation for how human beings got here makes more sense to her than the latter which leaves her with many questions. “I just believe science though I’m not a scientologist. I just don’t understand how the first human species were on earth 6-8 million years ago and religion just started 2000 years ago. It just doesn’t add up. It doesn’t make sense. “Even homo sapiens, we’ve been here for 15, 20,000 years. Christianity is only like ….I don’t know. I have a lot of questions”, she noted. The 38-year-old acknowledged her preference for Buddhism noting it’s not a religion per say but a philosophy which isn’t judgmental as it accepts everyone the way they are and more importantly, teaches them not to give voice to negativity. “I prefer Buddhism because it’s not really a religion, it’s a philosophy. Just to be a good person and they accept you for your mistakes. They accept you for …even when I go to the temple, they are like, Hey! Today, try not to say anything negative out loud,” she added.