Over 11 communities have been destroyed by heavy downpour in Yobe state. The heavy rain, which lasted up to 24 hours, wrecked havoc in over 11 communities in Gulani and Gujba local Government Areas. The State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) carried out an assessment impact of the damage and reported on their Facebook page that thousands of people were displaced with property worth millions of naira destroyed. Out of the 11 communities affected, SEMA reported that they could only assess 7 and the rest are inaccessible as they have be completely taken over by the flood.   Sam Larry disowns Portable over one million boys…     Akintoye dissolves Ilana Omo Oodua executive council     Caging Kuje escapees   SEMA on their verified Facebook page wrote: “In the last 24hrs, Yobe State Emergency management Agency received with shocked the devastating incident of flooding in some part Yobe State, the impacts of the reported flooding have assumed a threatening proportions, resulting in loss of lives and properties. Over 11 communities in Gulani and 1 in Gujba were affected by flooding as a result of a heavy downpour. The flooding has led to displacement of hundreds of Households across 11 communities in the 2 LGAs. Livestock and food reserves worth millions of Naira were swept away by the flood. “Executive Secretary of SEMA alongside stakeholders from Gulani went round 7 out of the 11 communities to rapidly inspect the damages and Commiserate with Victims. Unfortunately, four (4) persons have been reported death including a police officer while score of others were injured. The affected four communities (Gulani, Bara, Gagure and Njibulwa) were rendered INACCESSIBLE as the main bridge linking the town has been damage and washed away because of the flooding. “The displaced persons are currently taking refuge at Government buildings across the communities, SEMA as directed by his Excellency the Executive of Yobe State Hon Mai Mala Buni is mobilizing resources and intensifying effort to bring immediate relief to the affected communities while alternate route will be used to support the inaccessible communities.”