MTN Group yesterday identified collaboration as a key element to drive the expansion of the service offerings on its MoMo. MTN Group Chief Fintech Officer, Serigne Dioum, who made remarks during the announcement of the opening of MTN Group’s Mobile Money Application Interface (API) invitation to developers across several markets to participate in an Open API Hackathon, with a challenge to create a mobile application that uses MoMo APIs for use in their markets, said the Open API Platform will enable the telecom company to reach out to Africa’s resourceful talents and enable them to grow and create opportunities by leveraging MoMo Platform. Dioum said: “MTN is committed to extending financial and digital inclusion across the continent in furtherance of its strategy to build a pan-African Fintech platform that will power the digital economy and serve as a catalyst for social and economic growth in Africa. “With our Open API Platform, we reach out to Africa’s resourceful talents and enable them to grow and create opportunities by leveraging our MoMo Platform. We have no doubt that it is by collaborating with the talents of Africa that we will expand the service offering available on MoMo,” he added. The hackathon will be the second conducted by MTN Group Fintech and will take place in the following countries: eSwatini, Zambia, Congo Brazzaville, Rwanda, Uganda, Cameroon, Benin, Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana and Guinea Conakry.   Naira hits 620/$ at parallel market as FX demand surges     DMO: Nigeria transparent with public debt information     Dangote Cement, host communities sign CSR deal   Developers will compete to create an innovative application for the markets in which they are registered, which can process financial transactions with added capabilities that go beyond processing payments and drive both financial inclusion and literacy. According to MTN Group, the challenge runs from 18 July 18, 2022 till September 9, 2022, adding that developers will have four weeks to submit their idea of an innovative financial and transactional app that must include the usage of MTN Mobile Money APIs. “The developers are required to create a mobile application that uses MTN MoMo APIs; the mobile application needs to target consumers, merchants or businesses. “The application must provide a practical and valuable solution that can be deployed in the market where the applicants have registered and can cover use cases beyond payment but must utilise MTN MoMo APIs. “MTN in each participating country will select the top 12 applicants to progress to the prototyping phase; the preselected applicants will be required to make a live demo of their application to the adjudicator,” it said, adding that finalists stood the chance of winning up to $5000 in prize money in their respective country.