Before last Saturday’s governorship election in Osun State, the traditional ruler of Iwo, Oba Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi, the Oluwo of Iwo, had boasted that he will deliver 90,000 votes to the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its governorship candidate, Governor Gboyega Oyetola. Oba Akanbi, had in an inter-religious prayer he organised for the victory of Oyetola, said he hoped to see an indigenous of the town become Oyetola’s successor in 2027. He said: “I have a dream and a mission and my dream is for this place to produce the state governor in 2026. The governor has done his best. I want to use this as a prayer point for Iwo to produce the next governor in 2026. “I will deliver bloc votes for Oyetola. I’m declaring for him and I’m also calling on the people of Iwo to go and give their block votes to Oyetola. We must give at least 90,000 votes to Oyetola from Iwo. We are registering more, but right now, we have over 90,000 votes and I want all of them to go to Oyetola. “We have to give our vote to Oyetola for the future of Iwo. We are not voting for Oyetola, but the future of Iwo to have a chance at the governorship. We’ve never had it and we want to have it in 2026. “There is no party that can give us that more than the APC, because if Oyetola gets his second term,  it will be our turn after he leaves office. If we are able to use our vote to speak out, then we can beat our chest and will be able to say it’s our turn, and you should give it to us. That time, we will be vindicated”. The Oluwo might have hoped that all registered voters would turn out to vote as there are 90,051 registered voters in Iwo. Registered voters in Iwo turned out early to exercise their franchise. At various polling units visited, INEC official reported early and educated the voters on methods of voting. Security personnel were made to sign the INEC register. Across the Iwo community, voting was peaceful. It was described by many residents as a family affair. At each polling unit, political parties supporters could be seen canvassing for votes even as they engaged in vote buying. To avoid prying eyes of security agencies, different methods were devised to buy votes by the two dominant political parties. In some cases, voters were asked to go to convenient stores with the intent of buying stuff whereas they are to collect money after the party they voted for has been confirmed. In other cases, the person doling out the money stayed in a building far away from the polling unit and voters were directed on how to get to him. A voter, Idris Ademola, said, “This is Iwo. We do not fight here on election day. Everybody knows each other. We know the party the other person belongs to. All we do is to persuade people as much as we can do.” Senatorial aspirant of the All Progressives Congress for Osun West senatorial district, Mr Raheem Tadese, who dismissed allegations of vote buying in Iwo, had hoped that Iwo community would reward Governor Oyetola going by his performance in the last three and half years.   ‘Tinubu picked Shettima for public good’     Government won’t be deterred by propaganda over…     Osun 2022 polls: A timely jolt for APC   Senior citizens in Iwo also trooped out to cast their votes. Mr. Akande Olalekan, aged 70, who was waiting to cast his vote at Unit 1 Ward 06, said he expected a peaceful polls. Olalekan however predicted victory for his party, the APC. He said he was happy with the turnout of voters. A 90-year old woman, Tijani Anike, expressed joy for being alive to participate in this year’s polls. Anike who voted at about 9am said she has been voting for many years. After voting, the elders waited till the votes were counted. Those that couldn’t find any seat sat on the floor or in the grass. The Oluwo of Iwo who voted at the polling unit in front of his palace said Kings should be political. According to him, “I am confident of delivering 90,000 votes. It is not easy for the Governor to move from the status quo and do what is right. He has been paying full salary. Osun is a civil servant State and the people depend on salaries. “He has been paying debt inherited and didnt use the money for frivolitties. I have told my people to vote for the APC and they will vote for the APC. The Governor is doing a great job. I believe the person doing a great job should continue. I want all persons to vote peacefully. “Vote buying is a challenge to democracy. The populace do not have hope. They are getting what they can get. It is a bad situation . We do not know when to get out of it. The new breeds of politicians will help us to get out of it but people are hungry. They need food. Vote buying cannot stop now until we see real dividends of democracy “My domain is peaceful. I have told them nobody should stay home. They should show their voting strength. We want to see our strength. Nobody should stay home and watch television.” At the end of the voting exercise, a total of 35,634 voters participated in the polls against the 90,051 registered voters. The APC scored 17,421 votes while the APC got 16,914 votes. The ADP came a distant third with 591 votes. Residents of Iwo, however, showed that elections could be held without rancour.