Just like clearing the dining, wiping the table and washing the dirty dishes in the kitchen, there are things to do immediately after engaging in coitus, especially for ladies. Here are seven rules things to do after having a swell time: *Empty your bladder During sex, bacteria can get into your urethra, the tube that carries urine out of your body. That can raise your chances of an infection. But when you urinate, you flush those germs out. So if you are the type that loves to enjoy some cuddling after the act, don’t stay too long on it before heading to the bathroom to pee and when you wipe, do it from front to back to stop the spread of bacteria. * Wash up Gently cleaning yourself after s3x can protect women and men alike from infections like of the urinary tract (UTIs). Wash the area around gently (not inside) with plain warm water. Note: Never douche Some women think they need to clean inside their vagina after sex with water or prepackaged fluids. But douching can lead to more infections. That’s because it upsets the natural balance of bacteria that protect your vagina. *Make sure you wash your hands thoroughly It’s the best way to get rid of bacteria you might pick up from touching your or your partner’s genitals. That’s key to stop infections from spreading. Wash with soap and water, and make it part of your post-sex clean-up routine. *Ingest liquid, water preferably Since it’s a good idea to pee after a roll in the hay, don’t forget to drink water.   Girls…girls…girls, don’t let any boyfriend scatter…     17 types of k*sses and meanings     Effects of masturbation   When you stay hydrated, you’ll pee more, which means that more bacteria will wash out of your body before infections can flare up. Drinking cranberry juice can also reduce the chances of UTIs as it helps fight against bacteria. *Check for signs of pain or bleeding Double-check for any sign of post-intercourse trauma like pain or bleeding. Be sure what the pain is indicating if it’s from the friction of the genitals or infections so as to proffer appropriate treatment. And if you notice bleeding too especially if it isn’t due to your menstruation or breaking of the hymen, do see a gynecologist. *Double check with the condom This is to ensure while you were being taken on a ride through the clouds, your protection helmet didn’t decide to give way or even get stuck in your honeypot which can pose a grave health risk to you. So you must check to ensure its still intact and just incase it’s not, you know you have to take other post-protective measures especially if you’re not planning on being a mother at that point. *Wear loose-fitting clothing Hot, sweaty places are perfect spots for bacteria and yeast to thrive. So after some pleasurable moments with your partner, wear underwear and clothes that let air in. Avoid pantyhose, girdles, and panties that are too tight. Cotton undies work women and even the men as they’re breathable and absorb moisture. Or better still, skip underwear altogether it’s almost bed time.