Nigeria international Ogenyi Onazi believed lack of structure within the rank and file of the Super Eagles has been the bane of the team, adding it’s painful that the country’s flag will not be hoisted at the forthcoming Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup. The Al-Adalah midfielder in the money-spinning Saudi Arabian league, noted that lack of consistency in the makeup of the Super Eagles in recent years has eroded quality of the team hence failure to qualify for the first FIFA World Cup in Arab World. “ It is very painful that the Super Eagles will not be at the Qatar 2022 World Cup and I was also hoping to be at the World Cup for the last time with my country ,” the 29-year-old Onazi lamented yesterday on Sportsville , a sport programme aired on Channels TV.“It is really a big slap on our face and I still don’t believe that Nigeria is not going to be at the next World Cup in Qatar. “But it would become a reality when they start going to the World Cup and that is when we are going to feel the pains more; it’s really sad.”   EPL: Awoniyi may lead Nottingham against Newcastle     Ferguson urges Rangers to keep Bassey     Federer eyes one more Wimbledon   Speaking further, the 2013 AFCON winner noted that the Super Eagles have lacked stability and noted that the team would continue to struggle without a solid backbone even as he advised national team selectors not too be dishing out invitation to every Dick and Harry. “We need to stabilize the team (Super Eagles) because as we speak now, our national team does not have a structure,” the erstwhile Lazio midfielder further remarked. “We don’t have a structure because you see different faces at any time when you come to the national team today and tomorrow, it’s another different faces. “The national team doesn’t have values again because people now just stroll into the team; we don’t have a symbol but it’s no longer the case.” He berated both the public and press for always advocating for just any players once ‘they are able to score two goals in Europe or dribble five players in a game.’ “I’m not saying we shouldn’t bring in new players but we must have a base for the national team and not just call just anybody because he has score two goals and you bring such fellow and he cannot even play for the Super Eagles, “ he added.