The Nigerian Bottling Company (NBC) has stated that its investment in the country has reached over €1. 1billion . The Managing Director of NBC, Mathieu Seguin, said the company is planning further investment to boost the capacities of its plants to meet the ever-changing demands of consumers. Speaking at a press briefing to announce the donation of 1 million euros to support community empowerment and social impact programmes across the country, Seguin said in the last five years, Coca-Cola system has also supported the creation of 60,000 jobs along its value chain. The fund, according to him, will be deployed to support four key initiatives including the Federal Government’s journey towards becoming Open Defecation Free (ODF) by 2025; upskilling underserved youths and women in high demand skills; and community recycling initiatives. The partners for the project, he said, include Karis & Eleos Foundation, Women Against Violence & Exploitation Foundation (WAVE), Organised Private Sector (OPS) in Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (OPWASH) and Chanja Datti Limited. Speaking during the memorandum signing ceremony in Lagos, he said the partners for the fund were selected based on a rigorous due diligence process and their track record, as well as their ability to deliver value and make impact in the communities.   Adron Homes offers healthcare to communities     Dana Air laments short stay off the skies     Stakeholder seeks end to multiple taxation in ports   The Coca-Cola System, he indicated, has invested billions of   naira in lifting the living standards of communities in Nigeria, through locally relevant initiatives. In addition, the company has scaled its gender diversity and inclusion targets, youth and women empowerment, water stewardship and its broader agenda for a World without Waste. The National Coordinator, OPS-WASH, Dr Nicholas Igwe  said the efforts of NBC  will go a long way in helping the government  to achieve its goal  of  delivering  sustainable sanitation and hygiene services to all Nigerians. He said the support from NBC would help the organisation to deploy bio digesters  in various locations to that converts human  waste into biogas. These include Kano,Borno,Lagos,Edo He urged for effective collaboration with the private sector to ensure the country achieves its goal to end open defecation by 2025. The Founder, Karis and Eleos Hand of Hope Foundation, Bamiduro Olubukola said the support of NBC, would enable the organisation  empower women and youth in eight states through training in skills acquisition to help eliminate poverty and inequality, reduce unemployment, raise incomes, and improve standards of living. The Director, Corporate Affairs and Sustainability, NBC, Ekuma Eze, expressed the delight that Coca-Cola is having a fruitful partnership with the four organisations with a focus on empowering those living in rural communities with no access to water and other opportunities.