Worried by the high rate of petroleum products explosion and vandalism in Lagos State, the Oil and Gas Department of its Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources has held a sensitisation forum for the oil host communities of Ifako-Ijaye and Alimosho Local Government Areas (LGA). The event themed “Preventing explosion and vandalism of petroleum products pipeline in Lagos State: Citizens responsibilities and engagement’’, held in Abule-Egba. It drew participants from the drivers’ union, community development associations, and mechanics working along pipelines, among others. The ministry’s Oil and Gas Director, Sesan Moses Odukoya, said the government was pained by the number of the vandalism and the attendant explosions and wanted it eliminated. He showed a video of the explosions, adding that since 2018, the state has witnessed many explosions. He cited a case where over 40 people died He said pipelines are safe means of ferrying oil and gas across long distances. As such, there was the need for proper attention to them as ‘’we have to live with them, especially as more pipelines were being laid’’.   Senate passes Electricity Bill     Seven Nigerian celebrities with honorary doctorate degrees     COEASU extends strike by three weeks   His Deputy, Mr. Ayodele Anthonio, urged Lagosians to be vigilant and should report cases of vandalism to the ministry or the security agents. He said the pipelines are so thick that it required a special technical know how to burst them as vandals. An Assistant Director, Lagos State Safety Commission, Festus Todowede, advised residents against building close to pipelines’ Right of Way (RoW) and mechanics against working near them. A Director, Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, Bola Aliu, sought a joint committee of government officials and the affected communities on the way forward. He said there was the need for more monitoring as well as enforcement while use of technology, such as drones, and CCTV had become imperative. The Superintendent, ROW, Mosinmi Area Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation Limited (NNPC), Jimoh Yusuf, expressed gratitude to the government for hosting the event. He said despite efforts by the NNPC to stamp out the problem, it continued to rear its ugly head. Whereas, he said, ROW from Atlas Cove to Mosinmi is 25metres across for safety, many people were still encroaching on the pipelines with a road being planned near one at Ijeododo. He said it had taken a huge toll on the corporation as only 50 per cent of products pumped out got to its destination. Still, he called for understanding from the people. The Baale of Baruwa, Alhaji A. Baruwa, blamed security agents and some government officials for not being alive to their duties. He noted that he was once threatened by vandals, wondering where he picked the information.. He advised NNPC to pay attention to old pipelines, saying that experts said they rupture after 15 years.