Nigeria is incrementally moving towards a cliff in the competition for power, thanks to the most pathetic in-your-face excesses of President Muhammadu Buhari’s government, and the peripheral religious-gaming of his predecessor, Goodluck Jonathan. With the 2023 general election in sight, religion as a major factor in national politics is mutating into a hydra-headed monster that may consume Nigeria faster than the ethnic politics that has plagued her since the advent of self-rule. It is religion in politics or the politics of religion that is referenced as religio-politics, while of course ethnic or regional politics is geopolitics. Unarguably, religion plays a significant part in politics across the world, and Nigeria cannot be an exception. After all, the clatter between Islam and Christianity is regarded as the clash of civilization, and we see the impact in the contest for influence across the third world, and between western civilisation and her Islamic neighbours. The attack on the United States of America on September 11, 2001, by extremist Islamic elements, which shook the entire western world, is seen as a militant manifestation of that clash. Even the Afghanistan war and the many instances of terrorism by extreme Islamic elements that plague the western world, is seen as continuation of the debacle. But in Nigeria, while accusation of religious persecution has always been a factor, especially in the north-central, religious demagoguery was not always trumpeted in selecting presidential candidates. So, what could be responsible for the massive hoopla by Christian religious leaders against the choice of Senator Kashim Shettima, a northern Muslim, as the vice presidential candidate of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, of the All Progressive Congress (APC), a southern Muslim. This is despite the manifest secularism of the presidential candidate, proved beyond reasonable doubt by his happy marriage to a pastor of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Senator Oluremi Tinubu. Again, this is despite decades of secularist practices which Asiwaju has been associated with. Could it be the fear that the APC stands a great chance to win the presidential election, considering Asiwaju’s political sagacity and the extensive spread of his party, the APC that many Christian religious leaders are stringently railing at what has been termed a Muslim-Muslim ticket? Maybe. But for many, a strong contributory factor to the hysteria is the extreme manifestation of religious and ethnic bias by the Buhari presidency. This resort to manifest religious favouritism tamely started by President Jonathan assumed an epidemic proportion under Buhari. Perhaps it is the burden of those recent religious trajectory in national politics that the presidential candidate of the APC has been destined to carry as he climbs the presidential mountain. As I have written previously on this page, the greatest undoing of the tenure of President Buhari’s, is his lackadaisical handling of the menace of the insurgency by the militant Fulani herdsmen, in the north-central and southern part of the country. Unfortunately, many see him in religious and ethnic garb, for condoning the dangerous excesses of the herdsmen.   Learning from Kigali     Senate defection fever     AGF vs State AGs   So, that is why the menace of the herdsmen has been interpreted by many as part of an Islamization and/or Fulanization agenda, with both terms being interchanged without much interrogation. Even the highly regarded former President Olusegun Obasanjo made that allegation, and so every political decision of President Buhari, particularly his appointments of security chiefs, has been interpreted in shadow of religiosity/ethnicity. To further compound the unfolding tragedy, President Buhari damned the constitutional demand for spread in those appointments, as if to give credence to the alleged agenda. But while Buhari raised the ante of religion in politics to the present dangerous level, it was President Jonathan that made religion a part of statecraft. How can we forget the peacock entrails of Pastor Ayo Oritsajafor and his Christian associates milking their closeness to a Christian President Goodluck Jonathan? Sadly, there is no interrogation whether those manifestations were borne out of incompetence and the lack of rigour in the quality of decisions by the two presidents. For while President Obasanjo may act more religious that the two, he knew when to call the bluff of the Christian Association of Nigeria as soon as their handshake was moving towards the elbow. Tragically for President Buhari, his inept handling of the herdsmen crisis will define his tour of duty in the Nigerian presidency, and not the bridges, railways, roads and new universities that his media handlers wish should. Even the insecurity in the country that is far bigger than the herdsmen’s crisis, and which is afflicting several parts of the sub-Sahara Africa, has been interpreted as part of the larger Fulani agenda, because the president had treated a boil so lackadaisically that it has become cancerous. Now there is real and fake fear, heightened by the political opponents of the APC that supporting a Muslim-Muslim presidency by the Christendom is akin to offering a kola nut to a man who comes into one’s hut and defecates on the floor; instead of taking a stick to break his head, apologies to the incomparable Chinua Achebe, in “Things Fall Apart.”. So, the challenge facing the APC is how to separate the bumbling performance history of President Buhari, from the potentials on offer from Tinubu and Shettima. This column believes and has argued that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, from his antecedents has the potential to be a great president, considering his capacity to think through great ideas that can change the present economic bugaboo of our tottering country. This column also believes that Asiwaju has the badly needed political sagacity to mediate the troubling scarecrow created to harass and harangue the national psyche by the manipulative political elites. But the road to that presidency is now strewn with thorns of religious politics in a divided country. Some of those who had foresworn any support for another northern president after eight years of Buhari’s hegemonic rule, have refused to situate Tinubu as a strong southern presidential candidate who also needs a strong northern vice presidential candidate to have a good chance of winning the presidency. In their anger against the choice of Shettima, a northern Muslim as vice presidential candidate to Tinubu, a southern Muslim, they relegate geopolitics as subordinate to religiopolitics. Whether that discontent would buoy the candidature of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party, instead of Peter Obi of Labour Party, is immaterial to them. The argument that a vice president cannot stop the president’s determination to act in a certain manner, as evidenced by the tenure of Professor Yemi Osinbajo, is also considered inconsequential. For the antagonists of the Tinubu/Shettima candidacy, the Buhari’s excesses have created a nightmarish phobia. To tame that monster, Asiwaju’s famed sagacity will be tested in the days ahead.