Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID) is an infectious and inflammatory disorder of the female reproductive organ. It commences by an infection that ascends from the vagina and cervix into the genital tract. It basically affects the upper genital tract which encompasses the pelvic structures, the fallopian tube and the uterus. It can either be sexually transmitted or not.It basically affects  females  but both gender need to get educated about the condition. According to a survey in the United States between 2013 and 2014, among 1,171 sexually-experienced reproductive-aged women in the National Health and Nutrition Education Survey (NHANES), the recorded prevalence of self-reported PID was 4.4 per cent. About 2.5million women nationwide between 18 and 44  have been diagnosed of the infection. CDC estimated that more than one million women experience a PID episode  yearly. This  leads to  about 125,000-150,000 hospitalisations yearly. Quite serious,  right? The condition is caused by some microorganisms such as: Neisseria gonorrhea, Chlamydia trachomatis, Trichomonas vaginalis,  Escherichia coli, Mycoplasma hominis, Gardnerella vaginalis , Streptococcus agalactiae  etc. The factors that can cause  P.I.D (risk factors) include: being a sexually-active female, women of child-bearing age, having multiple sexual partners, consistent vaginal douching , unprotected sex,  prior history of Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI) or Urinary Tract Infections (UTI).   ASUU strike: Students, parents in dilemma over rent renewal     Students urged to shun substance abuse     ‘We want a leader that ‘ll reposition…   What are the manifestations?  Check out for signs like pelvic or lower abdominal pain, abnormal vaginal discharge, discharge may be yellow or green and possibly with an unusual odour. There is a medical term called ‘differential diagnosis.’ It literally  means the distinguishing of a disease or medical condition from others presenting with similar signs and symptoms. Medically, some disease conditions share similar symptoms and PID not being an exception to that also shares some symptoms with some other conditions. These include: appendicitis,  ectopic pregnancy, UTI, STI, ovarian cysts and torsion, endometriosis etc. Treatment entails the usage of any expeditiously-acting and likewise a broad spectrum antibiotics which will cover all microorganisms implicated in the disease. Recommended by a trusted and licensed health professional. Immune boosters can also be commenced in order to fight off the disease and subsequent ones. Any other required meds should also be taken solely on the medical personnel’s instructions. No self medication please. Other helpful approaches to successful treatment include: treatment of the affected woman’s sexual partner (if any), follow up with repeat testing within three to six months of diagnosis,  abstaining  from sexual intercourse with partner  until the symptoms get  fully resolved, reducing the frequency of vaginal douching. Finally, stay away from unprotected and unlawful sex, report any abnormality observed to trusted and licensed medical practitioners, carry out the necessary tests  when required, use your medications as duly prescribed by the health care provider, take good care of the vaginal region and avoid the direct usage of antiseptic soap on the region. Good personal hygiene is key; do not embrace self-medication, ensure to carry out routine screening on the general body, get proper education and right treatment as required. Most genital-related conditions (PID inclusive), if left untreated can result into infertility. . •Babalola is a Medical student at University of Ibadan.