Five movie stars who performed 2022 Hajj     Low capital businesses for startups     10 major festivals in Nigeria   Well, no matter your level of confusion, never rule out these seven places if your intention is to find a great ‘wife material’; Religious gatherings Religious gatherings, especially those held on weekdays and Sundays in churches or mosques, have always been considered one of the best places to find a ‘wife material’ from time immemorial. So if you are the very religious kind of man who also wants a ‘religious’ wife you should always switch on your search antenna whenever in any such gatherings. Though not all the ladies and even men who gather in such places are what they depict, with your faith the heavens will smile on you and you will find your ‘perfect’ fit. While not all social media platforms are guaranteed to give you your spec in a wife as there are a handful of people displaying false lifestyles and identities, there are still genuine ladies on these platforms. With due diligence and caution, if you apply your searchlight in the right corners, the comment section of a post or looking up a lady’s bio could interest. You can proceed to sending a DM and you could just get fortunate to realise she’s all you’ve wanted in a woman upon first actual meeting and the rest would become history. Weddings This is one sure avenue to meet pretty ladies who would waste no time to show up looking beautiful, screaming ‘Take me home to mama’. But you know you can’t take all but one home to mama. So you must spot and identify the one you think fits into the picture of the kind of woman you desire and shoot you shot. You may eventually get lucky and your wedding will be next others would be attending. The workplace Oh yes! The office or the space you transact your business is another great spot to find for yourself the woman of your dreams. Though, some people bluntly refuse the idea of considering the office as a place presenting several arguments to that effect. However, the workplace should never be ruled out because many people have been fortunate to find their soul mates there. You beam your searchlight among your female colleagues ‘entering your eyes’ and make your pick. It’s okay to ask a few other ‘trusted’ colleagues about your spec if you haven’t established a good rapport with her. If you’re conceived she fits into the picture, ‘apply pressure’ regardless of what others may think or say but stay ‘woke’ while at it because your yearning for a wife in the office must not interfere with your jobs. The gymnasium aka gym For the fitness enthusiasts who love to work out and desire someone just like yourself, this is your one sure spot to find ‘her’. Parties/clubs So, if your spec fits into this category, you should ‘dull yourself’ when next you go clubbing or partying. The movies The cinema is a cool place to spot that ‘wife material’ you have so yearned for. If you are single and searching male and a movie lover who would rather go out to see one than in your house, aside seeing your favourite movie when you do go to the cinema, also intentionally look out for a prospective wife material among the ladies that troop in to indulge. Do not allow your movie night out go to waste! The beach Yes! Yes!! Yess!!! The beach! This is another sure hotspot to get that dream girl and make her yours forever.