The presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, (PDP) Abubakar Atiku has denied the party’s selection committee voted Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike as his running mate. It was widely reported the 17-man committee headed by Benue Governor Samuel Ortom voted Wike with 13 backing Atiku as running mate. Two were said to have voted for Delta Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, who Atiku eventually picked as his running mate while one backed Akwa Ibom Governor Udom Emmanuel. There has been a cold war between Wike and Atiku’s camps since the development with many believing the Rivers Governor won’t back the candidate in 2023. But Atiku said the committee didn’t vote as widely reported.   Fresh trouble for Tambuwal, Bala, others as court axes Umahi     2023: Buhari hails APC leaders over choice of candidates     Abubakar Aliyu and the never-ending power grid collapse   The PDP candidate spoke in an interview with Arise TV on Friday. He said: ‘’The committee that was set up at my own instance deliberated. There was no vote, and they recommended three names, because they knew it was my prerogative to pick anyone of the three. So, there was actually no vote. It’s not true. “He Governor Ortom himself chaired that committee. He knew there was no vote taken, and I have the report of that committee. The committee recommended three people and I picked one. I did not go out of that recommendation. So, I think people should be fair to me and should also state the fact.’’ Wike, who participated in the PDP presidential primary scored 237 against the 371 votes secured by Atiku, who won the party ticket. But Atiku said he was already reaching out to the Rivers Governor for reconciliation. According to him: “We are reaching out to Governor Wike and we are talking with him and I believe very soon we will find a reconciliation. In fact, very soon, because we are talking to him. “We are talking to his governor colleagues. I am very optimistic we are going to resolve our internal crisis and move on.’’