The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has condemned statement credited to Senator Adamu Bulkachuwa (Bauchi North) over alleged inciting genocide against the Igbo race. The group described the senator’s alleged outburst as reckless, wondering why a man of such standing should describe the Igbo race as criminals that should be exterminated on the face of the earth. In a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary Emma Powerful, IPOB called for the lawmaker’s arrest and trial. It asked the international community to hold him responsible for any eventual genocidal action against the people of the zone. It added that the unguarded utterances had further exposed the hypocrisy and double standard of Nigeria, arguing were it to be an Igbo Senator or non-Fulani that made similar utterances he would have been a guest to the security agencies by now. The group’s statement reads in part: “Our attention has been drawn to the hate speech by the Senate Committee Chairman on Foreign Affairs, Senator Adamu Bulkachuwa from Bauchi State, against the Igbo race and Biafrans in general. “What else could be more inciting than such a reckless utterance by a supposed Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Sen. Bulkachuwa to say that South-East is home to criminals, rebels and deserve to be eliminated?   Fayemi sacks political appointees     FEC wishes Osinbajo quick recovery     JUST IN: Gunmen abduct four travellers in Anambra   “This statement which he made while featuring on a live programme of a national television, Chanels TV is a call for genocide, and should not be swept under the carpet. “We, therefore, want the international community to hold Senator Bulkachuwa responsible for any eventual genocidal action against the innocent people of the South East of Nigeria. “Why will a supposed Senator of a Federal Republic call for the death of a tribe and still be parading the streets free of charge? The only reason he is still parading freely unarrested is simply because he is speaking the mind of the cabal holding Nigeria captive. “How can Senator Bulkachuwa in his mischief forget so easily that the South East has been the most peaceful zone in the country until the Federal Government sponsored unknown gunmen to unleash violence in the zone in their desperation to demonise Biafra agitators? “How come Bulkachuwa forget so easily that despite the insecurity in the South East, senseless killings and terror attacks are worse in his North East? Has he called for the death of the mass murderers in the North who have been killing both civilians and security operatives? “Why is he so mischievous that he forgot that his Boko Haram kinsmen were killing Nigerians like fowls and asking for an Islamic caliphate yet Buhari was elected President both in 2015 and 2019? Even today Boko Haram, bandits and herdsmen have not stopped kidnapping for ransom and killing Nigerians yet Buhari remains the President, and another Fulani, Atiku Abubakar wants to take over power? “Why should Bulkachuwa call for death of the Igbo race and he is still walking around as if nothing happened?”