As war in Europe dominates the public’s attention, viewers in Nigeria have united with millions others around the globe for the annual convention of Jehovah’s Witnesses. This year’s convention theme is “Pursue Peace!” Ndubuisi Ezeokoli who has attended conventions for 43 years is attending this convention with his family. “There is no part of the earth today that is not facing one crisis or the other,” he says. “Hopefully, the convention will give us a bright outlook to continue having a positive attitude.” “This convention is an object lesson in how peace is being achieved by a global community right now as it unites millions of people even in areas of conflict like Ukraine and Russia,” said Olusegun Eroyemi, Nigeria spokesperson for Jehovah’s Witnesses. “The power of the principles being discussed transcends national borders, ethnic differences and language barriers. Both individuals and families will benefit from attending the program.”   2023: North West APC backs Tinubu-Shettima’s ticket     Pan African Farmers Organisation appoints Nigerian CEO     Banditry: Extend security forces’ retirement age,…   Jehovah’s Witnesses have been holding global conventions for more than 100 years. Following the practice of the past two years, this year’s virtual program will be released incrementally throughout July and August. The program’s first segment will be available for streaming or download beginning June 27, 2022. All are invited to attend the event by going to jw.org on the web or JW Broadcasting on the free JW Library app, or on streaming platforms such as ROKU TV or Apple TV. The program is free and accessible to all. The three-day convention will be available in six parts, each corresponding to a half-day of content. Topics to be explored are: how love leads to inner peace and peace with others; Why the Bible can be called “the road map to family peace”; How to attain peace even when suffering illness, economic problems, natural disasters or other difficulties; What people from around the world are doing to enjoy peace and Why friendship with God can lead to true peace.