The President of  Cycling Federation of Nigeria (CFN), Giandomenico Massari, said the sport was growing slowly in the country, affecting the performance of Team Nigeria in the just concluded  African championship. Massari disclosed this at the weekend during the closing ceremony of the 2022 African Track Cycling Championship held at  Moshood Abiola  National Stadium in Abuja. “Team Nigeria  has done well but many things have to be done  because we cannot compare our performance with other countries,” he said.“When we hosted the Africa Cup championship for the first time  in 2019, we  (Nigeria) won a total of 51 medals. “Our contingent was made up of 21 cyclists of both female and male categories . “We garnered a total of 51 medals made up of 21 Gold, 18 Silver and 12 Bronze medals to emerge champions,” he said.   WAFCON 2022: Depleted Super Falcons fall to Morocco in semis     Aribo happy with life at Saints     Rodgers reveals return date for injured Ndidi   “Rather this year, we have a contingent  of 35 cyclists of both female and male categories; we were able to garner  17 medals, consisting four Gold, seven Silver and  six Bronze medals,” he said. He said Nigeria did not live up to the expectations of the Federation and the country but hopefully would do more during  the next Championships. “In the championship in 2019, Egypt came second, winning eight Gold, seven Silver and seven Bronze medal but Egypt now have 26 medals consisting of  eight Gold, eight  Silver and 10  Bronze medals in the just concluded championship. ” Morocco came third with four gold and three silver medals. Burkina Faso took fourth position with three silver, five bronze whereas Burundi came fifth with two bronze medals,” he noted. The final medal  table saw the South Africa cycling team finishing  first  with 42 medals including  20 Gold, 13 Silver and  nine Bronze while  Egypt followed with 26 medals with eight Gold, eight  Silver and 10  Bronze medals as Algeria had 17 medals consisting of  five Gold, five  Sliver and seven Bronze. Team Nigeria hit 17 medals comprising four Gold, seven Silver and  six Bronze