Coach Solaja Ayodele can be said to be a man with the Midas touch as far as  grooming of athletes  from the grassroots  en route  to  international acclaim and status even more so with the spectacular  performance of  Tobi Amusan at the just concluded 2022  World Athletics Championships in Eugene, Oregon, writes MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN and ALESHINLOYE OWOLABI. Of  all Coach Solaja Ayodele’  protégées, Tobi Amusan  undoubtedly stands out  following her  earth-shaking  success as curtain fell on the  2022  World Athletics Championships in Eugene, Oregon  last Sunday. At the  iconic  Hayfield  Field’s track and field stadium located on the campus of the University of Oregon in Eugene, Oregon, the 25-year-old Amusan was the cynosure of all eyes when  she  broke  the 100m  Hurdles World Record  with a blistering 12:12 secs  in the semi-finals en route to her   Gold medal race with a sparkling wind assisted  12:06 secs. Ayodele  who laid  the foundation  stone of Amusan’s success , has  shed light on the career of the 25-year-old  Ogun State-born athlete, even as he revealed  her  grass to grace journey. “I actually discovered Tobi Amusan at  Our Lady Of Apostles Secondary School at Ijebu-Ode when she was in  the Junior Secondary School (JSS),” Ayodele, fondly  called  Bukatiger  told NationSport during the week. “I trained her to represent Ogun State in  the  school sports but while in  the Senior Secondary School(SSS), her father stopped her  in order to concentrate on her studies. “ But she sometimes sneaked  to training until she  finally stopped while in  the SSS2 ; but months  after her WAEC/GCE, she resumed training early 2012 following several appeals to her dad through her mum “I then took her and six other athletes from Ijebu-Ode to Uyo for three months for serious training. She and my other athletes represented Akwa Ibom  State at Eko 2012 National Sports Festival and this began her  journey to stardom.” An excited Bukatiger continued as he reflected on Amusan’s superb showing in Oregon:  “Of course, I am very surprised but in a beautiful way. I expected a medal; maybe gold but not a world record and this is magical to say the least.” The affable Bukatiger noted the petite Amusan’s innate talents coupled with her desire to excel made her a precocious from the outset, adding he had little difficulties tinkering her in order to burn the tracks.  “ From the start, Tobi had  desire  for excellence and passion for athletics,” he further explained.“ She was one of  my favorite athletes then such that when I am going for a competition as far as Abuja, I will take her along so that her training doesn’t suffer back home in Ijebu-Ode. “ In fact, it wasn’t that difficult(for me to train her)  because once her dad gave the go ahead, he supported her as much as possible in every way unlike other athletes that I had to sponsor from my pocket,” he added.   Oyo declares Monday work-free for Hijrah     Kanu’s lawyer accuses DSS of detaining staff since 2021     Tinubu, the candidate we are proud of   Incidentally,  Tobi Amusan is not Bukatiger’s only discoveries: “I also discovered Agnes Osazuwa now Olatunji who ran in the 4x 100m semi-finals team  to win bronze turned silver at the Beijing Olympics in 2008. I also discovered Onome Nathaniel, Samson Nathaniel and Ezekiel Nathaniel and both  of them took part at  the World Championships in Oregon. ”Ezekiel recently broke and set a new national record in the 400mh recently. He resumed at Baylor University USA, just last December. “I have also produced so many athletes  especially in the junior category such as long jumper Babajide Okulaja, shot putter Ndubuisi Joseph, sprinter Rotimi Adebayo and others who have represented  the country at one time or the other. “ There is also  Gbenga  Bakare  who was second in the 400m hurdles men’s  finals at  the just concluded National Trials in Benin. “ There is also Ndubuisi Joseph who  is now into power lifting in the US while Samson Nathaniel is currently one of the fastest quartermilers in the country.” Meanwhile, Bukatiger has canvassed for more governmental and corporate  support and finance towards the development of sports , adding  track and field is yet to get the commensurate attention over the years.   “We can say  that athletics is about  the second most popular sport in Nigeria but it does not receive the necessary support and attention it deserves especially as it relates to financing it’s program from government,” he argued. “ It is important  that  the private sector should be more involved in athletics as it is done  in other countries. “The government should make it attractive for their participation and government should have minimum influence in sports matters. “Also there should be synergy between the ministry of sports and that of education in the three tiers of government especially at the  federal and state  levels such that qualified coaches would be seconded to schools and sport  councils. “Also the government should provide enabling environment for sports growth by  providing adequate facilities and equipment as well as  good reward system and regular competitions at  all levels covering the geo-political areas of the country. “ And ultimately, we just need square pegs in square holes,” he added.   Story By MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN and ALESHINLOYE OWOLABI