Music Director, ThankGod Omori Jesam aka TG Omori needs no introduction in the Nigerian music industry. The prolific award-winning director, who has shot over 405 videos in five years, is currently a double nominee in the forthcoming 2022 Headies Award, for the Best Music Video category. He has directed videos for top recording artists including Olamide, Wizkid, Burna Boy, Tekno, Kiss Daniel, Fireboy DML, Falz, Timaya, Naira Marley and many more. In this interview with SAMPSON UNAMKA, he chats about how he gets inspiration, his career so far within the music scene, his relationship with superstars and so many more. YOU were nominated for the forthcoming Headies award, did you see this coming? I mean, I’ve been putting in work so I got nominated last year I did not win. This year I’ve put out a lot of videos and I feel like it’s only right, it was not a surprise. So you’ve been in the game for years now but in a short time you have done videos with the biggest in the industry, how does this make you feel? It is a wonderful feeling because that’s the plan actually, so I feel like it’s cool, I feel blessed still and it’s that opportunity. I’ve always wanted to express myself because most of these people are great artists like they put a lot of work into their arts so anytime I get the opportunity to give life to their work I feel like is always a blessing because it’s like a beautiful canvas for me to paint that art that I have always wanted to put out. I find it very weird that you read books, what time do you have to do this in your busy schedule? I have a library but I don’t read as much as I ought to but most times I try to draw inspiration from pictures I see in books, it’s weird so sometimes I just flip through the pages not like I read in detail but sometimes I’m just that kind of person that I try to get inspiration everywhere and in the weirdest place. In your career what was that one video that probably put you on the map, that called everyone’s attention to your brand? The process of getting here is not a one-video thing. There are times like there’s a first wave, second wave, third-wave do you understand, it is a process there’s your first wave where everybody is going to now pay attention and be like okay who’s this guy, that’s like the question-asking stage so at that point you’ve called for the attention it’s time for you to prove yourself. So I think the video that called everyone’s attention to me was the Naira Marley ‘Am I a yahoo boy’ video. When the video dropped,  you could tell from the kind of people that came to my dm (direct message) so everybody was like okay who’s this guy then I never stopped responding every day I keep showing them who I am so since then I have said to myself I am going to put in everything to make sure that… I know I’m not the best but I know I’m definitely uniquely different and that’s my advantage. I don’t believe there’s somebody better than anybody when it comes to art cause art does not have formulas. It is like a free expression like it’s a free inspiration it comes, there’s no stream where people go to fetch art so it is divine and spiritual you can’t say somebody is better because he’s probably having the advantage of budget or stuff. I just feel like I love the fact that I’m uniquely different and is been beautiful in my journey. You are one of the directors that put yourself in your videos, why do you do this what’s the motive behind this? Do you know the craziest thing? most of the time the artists initiate the plan because most of them feel like I carry a character that sometimes can be represented in their videos. The artist who suggested I feature in the two videos were like why don’t you play this role and I said why not sure so I did it and it was nice. I’m a free creative  I do know how to make music videos does not mean that…I’m like I could decide to stop making music videos tomorrow and probably be a creative director or brand do you understand I’m just a generally creative person that can make music videos  I know how people see video directors as nerds and all of that I understand, it is understandable it’s a crazy-ass hustle so it is okay if you want to live the way you live but like its different here because I just know how to do it like my life is not bent on that but I love doing it so that is it. You are one of the most expensive you know video directors in Nigeria right now. What’s the most expensive amount you’ve collected for a video in recent times? I  think it’s a tie. But it’s like 50,000 dollars. What was that video that gave you so many challenges to pull through? I always come prepared for these challenges so they never come to me as challenges because when they happened it is not like its bound to happen but here in Nigeria it’s crazy, you could just appear here and everybody is trying to frustrate somebody so every time those things happen they always come to me like a beautiful experience I mean it’s not beautiful but like experience. One time you tweeted something about when you retire or something like that, can you shed more light on that?   One year after viral burial Obi Cubana eulogises mom     Fela, Keith Richards inspired my career – Highlife Soes     There’s still hope for Nigeria – Davido   I come from a village called Odukpani, that’s like in the southern part of Cross River, I grew up in Lagos so when I started exploring more into arts, the urge to understand where my ancestors and all of that came from. I try to put myself in their positions and their minds. So like then I started to understand that at the end of the day there’s a reason why we are created black. I just said to myself that it’s important that after all of these I still want to go back to where I come from, I wanna go back to my people. Videos directors don’t have original content what’s your take on that, what’s the plan towards that? We’ve talked about this countless times trust me. I just feel like the artiste championed the concept of music videos so it’s going to be hard for us to even fight for that but I’m working towards that some people have their own YouTube, they shoot for artists and put it on their YouTube and I’m sure they are getting paid for that so stuffs like that I’ve also thought of means like that to break into that because trust me for our retirement plan we need all of these royalties and all of this money. Your parents, did they support your craft? Yeah I mean this is Nigeria as long as the money is coming at the end of the day. Our parents were trying to get us to be lawyers and doctors because they felt like that’s the safest way of getting financial freedom because from the generation they come those were the people they felt like were rich and all of that they never saw any other means of wealth so if you go out and find it yourself when your father is struggling to make you be this, it is because that’s the format they went through in life to be where they are. If you can show them that there’s a new system and there is a new format and it’s working I don’t think any Nigerian parents will have an issue. What inspires your dress sense, your look, your different hairstyles? My style and all of this are mostly motivated by how I feel at the moment. I’m always deep in the moment, I like to have a feel of everything so I don’t forget, so I don’t lose them because my life is a journey I’m lowkey documenting myself like my body is like a camera that is taking all of the memories and everything so I don’t restrict myself how I feel that day either. I wake up and I feel like wearing shorts that’s how I wear them I don’t plan these things. It’s not about the people it’s about how I feel, how comfortable I want to be or the kind of character I’m trying to play that day,  and if I probably want to be a villain and I am outside acting like a villain, I mean that inspires my look. Some artists are picky on which director shoots them, for example, I have been on a set where an artist that was featured got to the location and walked out of the set probably because he wasn’t cool with the director on ground, what’s your take on that? You see there are some certain type of artists that are very strict with their brand they move in a certain type of way and in 2022 life is moving fast people would rather pay a billion-dollar not to stress. Most big artists will rather shoot with a big director that is well known not because he’s the only person that can deliver it but because there’s that confidence that he knows what he’s doing he knows your angle, and the pictures are going to be clean they want it to look good so if they get on set and they see the setup and the director, instead of them stressing themselves to now start explaining to the director how it supposed to be, once they just see that this thing is going to be stressful and it might come out shitty to save ourselves the stress I’ll rather opt out because their image is number one to them, their images is top priority so if they come to a place and do not understand what’s happening there its only right you know,  if it happens in my set, an artist comes to my set and does not like how everything is moving and walks away which has never happened before but like I don’t know I feel like I’ll just have to go work on myself. Working with Burna, Olamide, Don Jazzy, and Wizkid who would you say you’re cool with? Everybody. You’re not Igbo, how come you even shot for top Igbo artists like Phyno? I mean all those people they’ve got positive vibes, every time we’re together is always positive energy, so I roll with everybody I don’t speak Igbo but I can speak Yoruba because I grew up in Lagos all my life. I grew up in Agungi. Would you say social media has played a huge impact on your career? Yeah I mean I have a good follower-ship so I won’t deny that but I feel like people find me interesting and want to subscribe so shout out to me too. It’s just a fifty-fifty thing. So if you’re not shooting a music video or editing what are you doing? Probably resting because I’m always trying to rest my mind, rest my body cause I’m on the road, so anytime I’m not on set I’m resting and that also includes having fun like playing Fifa or going for a drive.