Godwin Kienka, director of the International Tennis Academy (ITA) and author of the recently published “Sports in Nigeria – Going Round in Circles” has given further insight into his latest book and ways that Nigerian sports can rise again. According to the author, journalist, and sports administrator, the 404-page book, the third written by him, captures the major works of Commissions, Committees, and White Papers that have been ignored by the sports bureaucrats and administrators but, more importantly, exposes the reasons why Nigeria has not translated potential to results. As he puts it: “Anyone and everyone who has wondered why Nigeria with its enormous potential in sports has been unable to go from potential to results will find the answer after diligently reading this book.” He was of the opinion that Nigerian sports need to be handed to sports administrators who understand the passion, workings, and needs of the sector. He cited the recent two-year ban and, later, urban of Nigeria in international basketball tournaments as one of the wrong decisions that could be taken by administrators lacking passion and love for the game.    “At a time when the national women’s basketball team has qualified for the world championships and the men are on the way to making it a double, how does their participation or not participation impede a grassroots or local league program in Nigeria? “The decision has now denied home-based players who would have been a part of the two teams the opportunity of being scouted by agents from America, Australia, Spain, France, and Italy where professional leagues thrive from landing dollar contracts that would change their lives and those of their families and communities. It has also wiped out the momentum Nigeria’s basketball is gaining on the world stage. “We had the same mix-up and confusion in the Athletics Federation before the last Olympics leading to the ban of several athletes essentially because of utter negligence of drug procedures by the federation. It is said that when two elephants fight, it is the grass that suffers.” So, what’s the way out? Kienka recommends a more professional approach to running sports in the country.  “These situations have again pointed to the need to get the National Sports Commission up and running the way the Nigerian Communications Commission is operating most professionally under the Ministry of Communications. The Ministry of Sports appears to be overwhelmed by political pressures from so many quarters.” Second, he proposes a reward system that would be enshrined in a Nigeria Sport Policy.   ​“I am talking about a reward system like the  ‘The Sports Performance Reward Fund (SPRF)’, which I’ve initiated to drive home my point.   Onyekuru: I could stay in Galatasaray forever     Adesola Adeyemi: My experience on international runway has…     The end of the rules-based international order?   “We are working to raise an initial one billion Naira that will go directly to rewarding sportsmen and women for podium success at the Olympics, Commonwealth, All Africa Games, and the major World Championships.” The fund, Kienka said, will be administered by very reputable and high-ranking private sector individuals that will be unveiled following the Lagos book launch. “Every kobo raised can only be applied for the purpose of rewarding the athletes and the fund will be run very transparently with updates in the public domain.” Kienka who is the interim executive secretary of the Fund said. Adding, “We plan for instance N10 million reward for Olympic gold, N7.5 million for silver, and N5 million for bronze. This, we are sure, will turn the attention of our youth to sports and attract massive private sector investment.” Following the Lagos launch at the Lagos Lawn Tennis Club on Saturday, June 25, 2022, the fund has received the attention of notable sports lovers and players.   In total, the Fund has grossed over N7 million with the chief launcher at the event, Professor Wale Sulaiman, a world-acclaimed neurosurgeon with practices in New Orleans, Lagos, and London, donating along with his wife Patricia, the sum of N1.5 million to the SPRF. The couple also launched the book with half a million Naira. Kienka, himself donated, on behalf of his wife and three children, a total sum of N2.5 million to the Fund. “My three children who are very good tennis players and went to America on college scholarships may be past it but this fund for their children and many generations of Nigeria’s sporting youth.” Mr. Kienka said. Another N1million donation was received from Ahmadu Musa Kida, President of the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF). Kida,​ who led the national men’s and women’s basket teams to back-to-back African championship wins and to the Olympics, was also nominated to the board of the SPRF which will be unveiled soon. “I am glad to make this donation to underline my commitment to this project. I have no doubt that the SPRF will achieve the objectives for which it was set up,” said Kida, who retired recently as Deputy Managing director, Total Energies, Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited. Kienka is a former sports correspondent and features writer with the News Agency of Nigeria and later a sports columnist with the Guardian, Godwin Kienka garnered a whole lot of experience and exposure covering sports events all over the world. He set up the ITA in 1987 and produced many champions for Nigeria with many of them going to America to study on college scholarships. During this time, he became the first black African to qualify as an international tennis official and worked for the ITF and ATP officiating in tennis events all over the world. It is this body of knowledge that drives his passion for sports development in Nigeria. A graduate of English Grammar and Literature from the University of Ibadan and a Masters in Administration from the University of Lagos, his knowledge of the goings-on in Nigerian sports is pretty deep. An author is also a fellow of the International Institute of Management Consultants. Kienka’s success at ITA is not in doubt as he has consistently run year in year out developmental tournaments and shunning out tennis youngsters.