President Muhammadu Buhari will jet off to the capital of Senegal, Dakar, to participate in the International Development Association (IDA) for Africa Summit on Wednesday. A statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, explained Buhari is expected back in the country on Thursday. “President Muhammadu Buhari will depart Abuja Wednesday, July 6, to participate in the International Development Association (IDA) for Africa Summit in Dakar, Senegal. “An institution of the World Bank Group, IDA is deepening its support to drive a resilient recovery for countries hit by the global crises of climate and COVID -19, growing levels of insecurity and more recently, by the impact of the war in Ukraine through its historic $93 billion 20th replenishment cycle (IDA20) which goes into effect between July 1, 2022 and June 30, 2025. “At the High Level event slated for Thursday, July 7 and hosted by President Macky Sall of the Republic of Senegal, President Buhari is expected to join other African leaders in an open Dialogue on Development Challenges and priorities as well as transformational initiatives that will lead to an outcome document, the Dakar Declaration.   Katsina announces first monkeypox outbreak     9,989 police constables graduate from 16 police colleges,…     Abe’s ally Chioma dumps APC   ​”This commitment is expected to chart the way forward for the transformation of the economies of these nations in partnership with the World Bank/IDA. “Topics slated for discussion include: Financing for Recovery and Economic Transformation in Africa; Agriculture, Livestock and Food Security; Human Capital; Digital and Technological Innovation; and Energy Transition and Climate Change. “The President will be accompanied on the trip by the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Geoffery Onyeama; Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed; as well as Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo. “Others on the entourage are : the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele; Director- General, National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Amb. Ahmed Rufa’i Abubakar; Director-General, Debt Management Office, Patience Oniha; and the Managing Director of the Bank of Industry, Olukayode Pitan. “President Buhari is expected back in the country at the end of the Summit on Thursday, July 7,” the statement reads.