Nollywood star, Funke Akindele, who is now the deputy governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), for the 2023 general elections in Lagos State, while shedding light on her foray into politics, expressed confidence in the ability of the opposition party to win the 2023 election. Assistant Editor, ‘Dare Odufowokan, reports. Popular Nollywood actress and 2023 running mate to Olajide Adediran, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in Lagos State, Funke Akindele, popularly known as Jenifa, has been speaking on her sudden foray into the murky waters of politics. The actress was unveiled as the Deputy Governorship candidate of the opposition party during the week by the gubernatorial flag-bearer after weeks of speculations. Confirming her nomination as the deputy gubernatorial candidate of the PDP on Tuesday, the actress said she would be putting a hold on her acting career to focus on politics ahead of the 2023 general elections. According to her, she accepted the call to join partisan politics after considering a lot of things. Explaining his decision to nominate Akindele, Adediran said he his running mate is not just an actress, but a filmmaker and a lawyer, who has been creating jobs for Nigerian youths for many years now. “My running mate, Funke Akindele, people say she is an actress, but I’ll say I picked a lawyer who found love in film making. Beyond an actress, she’s a filmmaker. Someone who has grown her business from zero to something, winning massive followership in the process of what she’s been doing for years. She’s an Ikrodu-born diva and I believe she is going to add value to my candidacy. Some people are forgetting that the purpose upon which a political party is established is to win elections. My running mate is a brand that connects the grassroots and my people in the cyberspace,” he said. Accepting to be part of the ticket, Akindele said, is largely because of her concerns over the years on the need to bring positive change to women, youth and children across Lagos State. I am an indigene of Lagos and I live in Lagos. So, I see all the needs. I see so many things we can do,” she said. The Nollywood star was unveiled by her party last Tuesday during a campaign event that had all PDP candidates for various positions in Lagos State for the 2023 general elections in attendance. Prominent party leaders, chieftains and members from all parts of the state also graced the occasion. Akindele, who expressed happiness as the opportunity given her by PDP to contest the 2023 election, described her decision to join Adediran, popularly known as ‘Jandor’, on the ticket, as a huge sacrifice as she will leave acting, her career of many years for politics in order to bring positive change to Lagos residents. “Jandor has sacrificed a lot talking about young people passionately for over seven years to plan this project, abandoning his business to make a change in the state.   IPOB demands Senator Bulkachuwa arrest     Fayemi sacks political appointees     FEC wishes Osinbajo quick recovery   “So, I am going to put aside my career now, I am coming out for the women, the youths, we have talents in Nigeria, we need to explore what we have. We have both made sacrifices to join politics to bring positive changes to the people of Ikorodu and the state. We should build a state where our children can live rather than running and staying abroad. I am joining Jandor to bring a breath of fresh air to Ikorodu and Lagos,” she said. Explaining that she initially thought of rejecting the offer when she was nominated for the ticket, Akindele expressed satisfaction that she has God and the people behind her. She said, “I answered the call. We are the own ers of Lagos, we will vote, win and rule the state. For the women, I am going there for you. For the youths and the children, I am there for you. We can do a lot for this state and country and make things work. We are youths, we can run, we have energy to fix Lagos state. For my Ikorodu people, I thank you. I will not put you to shame.” On what the people of the state should expect from her team, Funke said the PDP administration intends to confront issues such as infrastructure needs, health system and improvement in the standard of education in the state. “In Lagos, what we have is an unusual situation and it requires an unusual solution. This is why we have presented to Lagosians a total departure from the norm. This is something fresh,” she added. Earlier, the delegation of PDP candidates, leaders, chieftains and members paid a courtesy visit to the palace of Oba Kabiru Shotobi, the Ayangburen of Ikorodu. They were received by the monarch and his chiefs. Presenting the flag of the party to Akindele, Hon. Philip Aivoji, the Lagos PDP Chairman, said the party is now ready to take over the governance of the state come 2023. “When the time of a thing has come, no one can cover it. By the power of God, we have come to light up Ikorodu and all parts of Lagos state. By the Grace of God, victory is ours and it is certain in 2023,” he said. Party bigwigs in attendance include Wahab Owokoniran, Chief Taiwo Kuye, former member South-West caretaker committee, Chief (Mrs.) Aduke Maina, member of Board of Trustees (BoT), state chairman of the party, Dr. Philip Aivoji, Nicholas Akowala, Wale Gomez, Lagos Central Senatorial candidate, Otunba Segun Adewale, popularly called Areoland. Others are Lagos West Senatorial candidate, Bisi Odunsi, Ganiyu Adekunle, Princess Sadiat Fafowora, Bankole Wellington, popularly called BankyW, candidate of the party for House of Representatives Eti-Osa constituency and his counterpart in Ajeromi- Ifelodun, Bartholomew Chima and a numerous other PDP candidates.