Musician Osayamwen Donald aka Djinee has narrated his ordeals after spending long hours in Lagos traffic. In a Twitter thread, the “Ego” crooner lamented the impact of this on the residents’ quality of life seeing they endure heavy traffic and grapple with other failed infrastructure on a daily basis. Djinee argued ‘money doesn’t increase ones quality of life in Naija’ while bewailing the condition of the ‘mega city’ and the entire country stressing nothing is ‘working’. He described persons who are well travelled yet in support of this administration as the ‘biggest fools.’ Djinee tweeted: “I can finally tweet this. Fri/Sat, I was out for 16hrs. 9 of those were spent in traffic. 4hrs to the location & 5hrs back. “Back” wasn’t even home cos I had to find shelter @ a friend’s. Couldn’t drive any longer. And some people experience this everyday. This is not life.   I must marry virgin from Israel – Actor Aguba     I’d rather patronise outsiders than friends – Actress…     10 Nigerian entertainers with traditional titles   “You have to possess a higher level of reasoning to know that money doesn’t increase your quality of life in naija. In that traffic, there were benzes & ranges, all as frustrated as everyone else in traffic. All of us losing productive time. Our health collectively taking a hit! “I asked myself how long I can take this. The first night, I was still in traffic at midnight. Finally out of it, driving in pitch black darkness still on terrible roads in the rain fearing for my safety because this is naija, this is Lagos! “This is no political tweet. Lagos is not working. Nigeria is not working. Ask those that have to scoop flood water from their houses, replace car engines. Ask the families in Owo, Borno, Adamawa, Kaduna etc who like their counterparts in the east have lost thousands to terrorism. “Lagos has become so capitalist that there has been no thought given to proper urban planning. Just keep selling! Fuel stations jostling for space with residential houses on tiny roads. Dangote refinary built & half the road leading to it is a mess. Agbero is normal. A mega city! “Our bar of success has been set so low. That’s why we’ll see all these & more & applaud. Either that or we’re plain stupid. Or worse still, our hunger has left our brains comatose, so we’ll prefer the crumbs they (politicians) pacify us with than seek a total change! “In the land of the blind, the one eyed man is king. You need to legally travel out to see what it means to have a quality life for less. If you’re well travelled & you still see the mess here as normal & support the administrators of this anomaly, then you are the biggest PHOOL!”