The operation of the long-awaited Lagos light railway would significantly boost not only the economy but enhance food production logistics, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has said. He spoke during the Southwest Zonal Sensitisation workshop on implementation of Food systems Transformation Pathways in Lagos. Represented by the Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Samuel Avwerosuo the governor said the work on the Blue Line rail project is at 90 per cent completion stage. According to him, the rail line will greatly shorten the travel time and serve as an important transportation junction by facilitating the transport of goods. With the takeoff of the deep sea port, he said Lagos was ready to support private investors to    facilitate trade within its market described as one of the biggest in West Africa to benefit a range of productive sectors. He said the government was encouraging the private sector to step up investment in the aquaculture sector. He said the state wants to encourage greater investment in the fisheries sector, which is seen as ripe for sustainable development. The state’s fish production is still less than 60,000 tons.   Fed Govt: petrol scarcity will linger until full…     Kuje prison: 64 Boko Haram suspects escape after attack     Kuje: Day terrorists wreaked havoc   In the workshop, Sanwo-Olu noted that the food systems were a considerable part of the national economy and had contributed significantly to many developmental issues. He said: “It is in line with this that the Lagos State government through the State Ministry of Agriculture developed her own five-Year Agricultural and Food Systems Roadmap 2021- 2025 to rapidly scale up production and processing capacity and improve competitiveness in Lagos, and by extension Nigeria. “The Lagos State Agricultural and Food Systems Roadmap is a deliberate effort to develop the agricultural sector by way of interventions from the public and private sector, as well as, international technical and donor organisations where it has competitive and comparative advantages towards enhancing the States self-sufficiency in food production.” As the Russian invasion of Ukraine continues to increase the persistent challenges of hunger and poverty, the State Commissioner for Agriculture, Ms. Abisola Olusanya said the government was encouraging the private sector to step up investment in the aquaculture sector. She said the government was driving an ambitious strategy that addresses adaptation and bolsters agricultural resilience while making food systems part of the solution. She said Lagos was   on track to achieve Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) as it seeks to deliver effective solutions for sustainable transformation of food systems. She said: “It is worthy to note that Lagos State is dedicated to achieving all the SDGs. Thus, the state government has implemented numerous projects/programmes to address hunger, malnutrition, unemployment, and underemployment and boost food production and supply systems in line with her Agricultural and Food System Roadmap (2021-2025) that was launched by Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu.” The Permanent Secretary/ National Convenor, Federal Ministry of  Finance, Budget and  National Planning (Budget and  Planned Arm), Mrs Olusola Idowu   said the Exploratory Dialogues on UN Food Systems Summit  took place in the six geopolitical zones of the country last year , which Lagos and Oyo States hosted for states in the South West zone. The dialogue, access to her, saw the active participation of relevant Groups such as women, youth, indigenous people, nongovernmental organisations as well as the private sector.