Economic and finance experts from public and private sectors of the nation’s economy will converge at the upcoming 2022 Lagos Economic Summit known as  ‘Ehingbeti’ to deliberate on the paths to sustainable socioeconomic growth of Lagos State. Speaking at a media parley in Lagos, to herald the summit scheduled for August 16-17, the Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget,  Samuel Egube, said all arrangements have been made to ensure the summit, with the theme: ‘Lagos 2022- 2052: Charting the Paths to Sustainable Socioeconomic Growth,’’  “The future is a hope we all have,” is successful. Egube said Lagos State government has never believed it can do it alone, but has excelled with the cooperation and understanding of relevant stakeholders in which the private sector has a major role to play. He assured that Lagos will continue to do well, adding that “Lagos cannot fail because there is so much around the way Lagos is governed.” Egube, who addressed the media in company of other senior government officials, including the Commissioner of Finance, Dr. Rabiu Olowo, said the state is central to the survival of the country and being the economic nerve centre of Nigeria, will continue to attract people from other states of the federation. He said Lagos is daily contending with the influx of people from across the states, saying this  requires lots of planning, not just for the moment, but for the future.   Zoho Technologies, others win awards     Domestic airlines lose N4.3b yearly to restricted flight     FCMB Group records N15.4b PBT in six months   Egube said some of the current developmental initiatives in Lagos were products of the resolutions taken from the previous Ehingbeti summit,  adding that, the conference was not just about talk-shop, but also to walk-the -talk. “Lagos future is germane to this administration and we have invested our time and energy to ensure that Lagos lives up to its potentials and projections. Lagos needs to take ownership of its future. We are going to assemble a lot of people from the public and private sectors to assess what has been done so far and what is left undone. People have investments in Lagos because they believe in the future of Lagos. We might quarrel about today, but we are united about what our future should be and that is what we are going to be celebrating in the next Ehingbeti,” he said. The state government, he said, has implemented 193 out of 206 resolutions from Ehingbeti since its inception, adding that, over the last 20 years, recommendations from Ehingbeti have helped the Lagos State government to focus on areas that concern the citizens, investors, and businesses with positive results achieved. Since the inaugural summit in 2000, Ehingbeti has gained useful insights from innumerable business and political leaders, renowned economists, notable development experts and outstanding scholars, who have participated from different parts of the world. Ehingbeti is the first institutionalised economic forum by any state in Nigeria and is an ingenuous socio-economic apparatus that has contributed significantly to the evolution of state into a major economy in sub-Saharan, with expanding potentials. The summit, hosted by successive governments of the state since the beginning of the Fourth Republic, has consistently redefined the dynamics of public-private sector collaborations for development across social and economic indices in the Lagos State.