Enyimba captain Austin Oladapo has caught the love bug and caused a stir when he made his marriage proposal to his girlfriend Gift Ogbanuku on the hallowed pitch of the Enyimba FC Stadium in Aba before a Nigeria Professional Football League game last weekend. Ahead of their traditional marriage on 12th August 2022, the lovebirds share their intimate journey and why they oddly choose the pitch to announce their engagement. TUNDE LIADI reports. Enyimba FC captain Austin Oladapo held everyone at the Enyimba International Stadium, Aba spellbound shortly before their final home league game of the season against Dakkada FC last weekend when he proposed to his girlfriend, Miss Gift Ogbanuku on the pitch in the presence of his teammates with fans at the stands and other club officials serving as worthy onlookers. The scene became more animated and electrifying when Gift said ‘yes’ to the former Gombe United and FC IfeanyiUbah midfielder. It was a lovely sight to behold and Oladapo reckoned the decision to use the Enyimba International Stadium’s pitch  has served his intended purpose of showcasing his profession to his girlfriend  even more so to reassure her that she’s his one and only whom he adores, loves and cherishes . He said he’s thrilled that the love affair that started when they met shortly after a league game at the UJ Esuene Stadium, Calabar (which served as Enyimba FC’s temporary home ground then) in 2018 and exchanged compliments has blossomed over the years, adding the decision to take Gift as his heartthrob is one he would take over and over again. “Her name is Gift Ogbanuku, she is from Bekwara Local Government Area of Cross Rivers State,” Oladapo who would be 27 on July 27, told NationSport.“She studied Library Science at the University of Calabar. “I met her in Calabar when Enyimba was  still playing their home games there in 2018. “We became friends until 2019 when I asked  her out and she agreed to date me. Ever since,  we have been nurturing the relationship and to the glory of God, it has been going well from that time and we have known each other very well. “I met her on the pitch after our game with Plateau United in 2018. She came to me and said ‘I know how to play’ but nothing came to my mind then because  it  was just an innocent admiration ;after some time later we became friends.” Oladapo explained the good virtues that attracted and endeared him to Miss Obanoko that made him make up his mind that he would be spending the rest of his life with her. “One of the reasons I decided to settle for her is because she’s from a very good Christian family,” the attacking midfielder further said. “Her father is a Pastor in Deeper Life Bible Church;  she’s well trained with the fear of God and  she’s also educated.   Bayern Munich’s Lewandowski joins Barcelona for €50m     Lewandowski bids Bayern goodbye, nears move to Barcelona     Chukwudi emerges President of Amputee Football Federation   “One other  thing I like about her is the respect she has and submissiveness. “I think the three and a half years of our dating and getting to know each other’s weaknesses and strengths have given me enough time to assess her and make up my mind. She stuck with  me also during my trials especially during my suspension by CAF. I don’t think I can take that for granted for any reason,” he noted. Meanwhile, Oladapo explained he  used the Enyimba Stadium to showcase his girlfriend to his friends and admirers, adding  it was an opportunity to honour her and show  to her that he made his name as a footballer. “I made use of the stadium for the marriage proposal because I know that if I do it like that I am letting her know that I am a footballer and it is where I work,” Oladapo who joined Enyimba in 2017, told NationSport. “Since I  made my name at the Enyimba Stadium, I decided to do that(marriage proposal)  so that Nigerians will know her and it will serve as a safety to her. “I did it to assure her that she remains my darling and that she has no rival at all. “Proposing to her on the pitch has blown up the relationship  and I am so happy because I wanted to honour her in the presence of all.” The excited Oladapo is full of hope and expectations that the traditional marriage will come up on August 12th  after  they have both  sought the consent and approval of their parents. Speaking further on their lovey-dovey story, Miss Gift Obanoko disclosed she settled for Austin because of   his self-discipline, self-control and being a person with the desire  to excel. “I accepted to marry him because he is my kind of man,” the Malabress (aphorism for a female student of University of Calabar).“He is someone with good prospect “I like the fact that he is disciplined and a goal getter. I like the fact that he is also God fearing and  also puts his family first in everything. “All these outstanding qualities will make him to be a good husband by the grace of God. “ I think he is the best for me because the time we have spent together  have shown that we are compatible,” she noted.