Family Homes Funds Limited (FHFL) has concluded arrangements to raise up to N20 billion from the alternative segment of the capital market. FHFL, through its special purpose vehicle, Family Homes Sukuk Issuance Programme Plc (FHSIP), plans to float a N20 billion Series II Ijarah Sukuk, to complete its N30 billion Sukuk issuance programme. In 2021, FHFL had accessed the market though its N10 billion seven-year 13 per cent Series 1 Ijara Lease Sukuk due 2028. The debut issue recorded an oversubscription of more than twice of the issue value. Sources in the know at the weekend confirmed that arrangements have been concluded for the new issuance of Sukuk by FHFL. The N20 billion issuance will become the second-ever certified corporate Sukuk in Nigeria. The offer has already been reviewed and certified by the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Financial Regulation Advisory  Council of Experts (FRACE) and also duly registered with the Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC). FHFL will be offering a seven-year fixed rate  Sukuk Al-Ijarah to discerning investors through a book-building, pre-order system. Minimum subscription to the issue will be N10 million and thereafter in multiples of N1 million. The Sukuk will, thereafter, be listed on the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) and FMDQ Securities Exchange. Family Homes Sukuk Issuance Programme is rated BBB+ by Global Credit Rating (GCR) and Bbb by Agusto & Co. The Sukuk issuance is rated on its own BBB+ by GCR and A+ by Agusto & Co.   Cordros Trustees gets award     Ardova grows sales by 50% in Q1     Nigerian Breweries lists 145.1m scrip shares   Rental distribution will be semi-yearly in arrears over the life of the Ijarah while repayment will be by amortised principal repayment over the life of the Ijarah. The net proceeds of the Sukuk issuance will be used to finance development of affordable homes for low income households. FHFL is a quasi-government entity owned by the Federal Government of Nigeria, through the Federal Ministry of Finance and the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA). It was established to impact the quality of lives of Nigerians, particularly the poor and vulnerable. FHFL’s fund raising is to support its focus on providing decent home as a pivot towards necessary comfort and security for citizens on low income. FHFL believes there is a need to bridge the infrastructural deficit of decent homes for Nigerians estimated to be at 22 million, particularly for those on low income. As a social housing initiative promoted by the government as part of its social intervention programme; FHFL plans to invest up to N1.3 trillion in the development of 500,000 affordable homes nationwide over the long-term. In the process, this is also expected to create up to 1.5 million jobs whilst enabling homeownership. Family Homes Funds initiative is in line with the New Urban Agenda and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal of promoting sustainable cities and communities, reducing  poverty, promoting good health and well-being, economic growth, and reducing inequalities-Sustainable Goal No. 11.