The Asin of Oka Odo, Iwaro-Oka in Akoko southwest local government of Ondo, Oba Pius Omiyejola Akande, has said that a former Lagos Governor, Bola Tinubu, would perform well if elected as President. The Monarch said Tinubu would perform well because he (Tinubu) is aggressive. He spoke at the weekend in Iwaro-Oka during the celebration of his second year coronation anniversary and new yam festival of the community. Residents of the community trooped out in large numbers to celebrate the new yam festival and joined their monarch in marching to the Okunre shrine to offer prayers and thanksgiving for a bountiful harvest. They also brought out their sacred masquerades and wore different attires to sing and dance in various groups around the community. Non-indigenous of the community were not allowed into the shrine where the prayers and sacrifices were offered.   Tension over alleged murder of woman in Anambra community     England beat Germany to win women Euro 2022     Tiwa Savage reveals man behind ‘Somebody’s son’ hit track   Speaking in an interview, the Monarch said the Federal Government was not doing enough for the traditional institution in the country. He called for the establishment of state police even as he promised to revive many traditional things that were abandoned or neglected in the past. According to him: “We are happy. I have to fasten my belt to bring development to my people. The federal government is not performing as regards traditional rulers. If we have somebody like Akeredolu in the federal government we will enjoy. Government at the central level is not doing well. Money is there but the federal government has refused to release the money. “We have been neglected for a long time. Most of the things we have been doing have been neglected. We just had the throne that was taken from us since 1904. Most of the things we were doing before have been abandoned. We are trying to resurrect them and bring them back. I have nothing against masquerade, I have nothing Christianity, I have nothing against Muslims. All religions will be allowed in my community. “I have said it. Tinubu will do well because he is very aggressive.” Chairman of Oka-odo Community, Mr. Jerome Orole, said the presentation of Staff of Office and Instrument of Appointment ended 118 years agitation for the Chieftaincy to be recognised by the government. The State Government’s recognition of the Asin of Oka-odo, Iwaro-Oka, now made Okaland in Akoko to be having two Monarchs, the Olubaka of Oka and the Asin of Oka-odo, Iwaro-Oka.