The Tinubu Campaign Organisation (TCO) yesterday said the choice of Senator Kashim Shettima as running mate by All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is for the good of the country. The campaign team noted heated debate generated by the crucial decision. “The TCO restates that religion or ethnicity was far from the calculations of the All Progressives Congress and its presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu in picking his running mate,” it said. Also yesterday, a group, GYB Network for Asiwaju, promised to mobilise for the victory of the APC ticket in next year’s election. A United Kingdom-based organisation, Atlas Global, said it would partner with the Bola Tinubu Foundation to revamp community healthcare, boost agriculture and create jobs for Nigerians. The Director of Media and Communications, Bayo Onanuga, said in a statement that if Tinubu had intended to cash in on ethnicity, he would have picked a running mate from the Northwest,  which has the highest number of registered voters. TCO also explained that if he wanted to appeal to the base instincts of religion, he would have also gone for a candidate in the Christian dominated parts of Nigeria. The group explained that Tinubu picked a tested politician and technocrat from the minority Kanuri ethnic group from the Northeast, adding that the choice was not based on religion. According to TCO, “the factors at play were issues germane to confronting  the multi-dimensional crisis our nation faces today: insecurity, economic problems, such as the unemployment crisis facing our youths.” The statement added: “Our candidate canvassed on his track record in Lagos to win the APC primary last June.  As governor between 1999 and 2007, he was able to transform a decadent state into the fourth biggest economy in Africa. He believes that his feat in Lagos can be replicated all over Nigeria. “To assist him in realising this vision, he picked Kashim Shettima, who also established a track record of development  in Borno State while he was  governor for eight years, despite the Boko Haram crisis. Surely, only the deep knows how to call onto the deep. “Nigerians have a lot to gain in having the two tested leaders at the helm of affairs. “Naturally, some Nigerians with closet motives have failed to see the opportunities and possibilities the twin candidates present to our country at this time of difficult security, economic and political developments, preferring to fan the embers of religion and ethnic divisions among their unsuspecting and vulnerable compatriots. “The TCO hereby appeals to fellow Nigerians to embrace the best elements of our common purpose and reject the campaign and incitement against fellow citizens. “When Nigerians stand together, they have been known to achieve incredibly positive outcomes. That is the lesson from our history.  To now succumb to the base ends of identity, by further straining our already difficult ethnic and religious cleavages, is a great disservice to the country and to citizens who had no choice about their parentage, ethnicity or religion at birth. “Either as Christians, Muslims or traditional worshipers, as Nigerians, what should be important to us today and tomorrow is our commonwealth as citizens of this great nation. “The TCO will like to recall the statement by Asiwaju Tinubu, by way of a closing note, when he assured all Nigerians that he was  not oblivious of the religious and ethnic sensitivities of the nation, and that he picked Shettima in fulfillment of the overriding interest of the country.   Bandits kill kidnapped Catholic priest     $3.5m fraud suspect extradited to US     Counsel’s absence stalls Port Harcourt murder trial   “I am mindful of the energetic discourse concerning the possible religion of my running mate. Just and noble people have talked to me about this. Some have counselled that I should select a Christian to please the christian community. Others said I should pick a Muslim to appeal to the Muslim community. Clearly, I cannot do both.” “Both sides of the debate have impressive reason and passionate arguments supporting their position. Both arguments have good reasons in support of their claims. But the assurances I bring is that as President, I hope to govern this country towards greatness and progress, deploying the tools of  modern innovation to resolve seemingly intractable problems that have dogged our country and hindered our match toward greatness. I make this pledge on honoured promise knowing full well that some of the decision may be politically difficult.” “May I say this to all of you, especially those  disappointed in my selection based on religious considerations. I will not and cannot ignore the religious concerns and ethnic sensitivities of our people. I come from a background and orientation of pluralism that understands that the greatest gift contemporary Nigerian leadership needs today is sensitivity to the management of our complex diversity,” Tinubu said. Spokesperson for Atlas Global, Tunde Babalola, told reporters in Abuja the coalition with Bola Tinubu Foundation would involve digitalisation and development of existing public initiatives, which the former Lagos State governor had in his Manifesto for 26 years. “This coalition will make possible digitalisation of initiatives through launching of digital platforms to enable initiatives go beyond Lagos State, making the initiatives available to citizens nationwide. “The aim of us working with Bola Tinubu Foundation is because the Organistion already has structure in Place which makes implementation possible and will be able to reach out to millions of Nigerians by 2024. “Ongoing talks reveal that there will be up to N250m for successful applicants to create new SME’s in Nigeria which in turn will create almost 500,000 Jobs across the country by 2025. “We intend to revamp the community nursing programme, which used to be available to the poor and marginalised in the 70’s until mid 90’s. “A platform like www.bathcng.com , (Bola Ahmed Tinubu Healthcare Nigeria) will enable interested unemployed certified nurses, care qssistants, and doctors get jobs through initiative via online booking of appointments, which appointment rates will be controlled by platform to allow just about anyone get healthcare visits and referrals to partnering health care centres across Nigeria.” He said that a social media platform has been created for the national leader of the All Progressives Congress to commemorate the his 30 years in politics. Babalola noted that this will allow Nigerians have access to the presidential candidate of the APC. “More interestingly we have outlined certain programmes to celebrate 30 years of Tinubu’s involvement in politics. Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello’s group of GYB Network for Asiwaju has assured Shettima of support. The group, led by its Kogi State Coordinator, Alhaji Haddy Ametuo, discussed with Shettima its mobilisation plans. A statement by Ametuo said: “Through the support of our Alhaji Yahaya Bello, we paid a solidarity visit to our Vice Presidential candidate Senator Kashim Shettima on Monday, to congratulate him on his selection and to assure him of our support for the project. “We are particularly excited because Senator Kashim Shettima is young, brilliant, resourceful, energetic and a round peg in a round hole, who would add developmental values to Nigeria. “Being a grassroots organisation, we assured Senator Shettima that we will ensure massive mobilisation of real voters from all the nook and crannies of Kogi State to deliver the ticket 100 per cent during the election.” The statement lauded the competence, capacity and track records of achievements of Kashim Shettima as a former governor and Senator against other sentiments. Ametuo said: Against all odds, we believe that Senator Shettima was selected based on the principles of integrity, inclusion and continued performances and relevance in Nigerian politics.”