The Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika has said there are no immediate solutions to the crises rocking the  aviation sector. Sirika spoke during  an emergency meeting with Airline Operators Association of Nigeria (AON) in Abuja yesterday, saying factors impacting the crises in the sector were beyond the industry’s control. The minister, who said there is no short-term solution to the crisis, stated that it is a global problem. He however said the situation would be addressed when Dangote Refinery commences operation. “Energy crisis is real and it is global. Today, there are aviation fuel problems all over the world. From America to New Zealand. It is aggravating in Nigeria because we don’t produce the product. “It’s aggravated also because  foreign exchange is scarce in Nigeria because the source of earning the foreign exchange also has dwindled,” he explained.   Court gives EFCC nod to prosecute Ondo Speaker, lawmakers     Chioma Ifemeludike mocks colleagues denying alleged affairs…     UPDATED: Senate summons Emefiele over inflation, devaluation   He said the Federal  Government had in the past sourced 10,000 metric tonnes of aviation fuel for the airlines adding that the government is willing to do more. “As we speak, the government is in the process of finding a permanent solution to this issue,” he assured. Some of the solutions he said include, “importation of the product at appropriate price, accelerating the refurbishment of our refineries and also wait for the coming on stream of Dangote Refinery to boost supply of the product.” He, however,  noted that the solution could not be soon. Meanwhile, AeroContractors of Nigeria and Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), have denied reports of the diversion of over $3 million belonging to both organisations meant for the  acquisition of a Bombardier aircraft for the airline. They said there is nothing true about the report as any information suggesting such  was untrue. They said information suggesting  refund by Bombardier, a reputable aircraft manufacturer, is also untrue.