The National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) has raised the alarm over growing cases of fake foreign scholarship advertorials. NAPTIP said an increasing number of persons are being trafficked to foreign countries under the guise of schooling in foreign universities only to be forced into prostitution. Director General (DG) NAPTIP Dr. Fatima Waziri-Azi said a lot of Nigerians are being trafficked to countries like North Cyprus, using fake university scholarships. She said this on Monday in Abuja at the kick-off off activities marking the World Day against Trafficking in Persons. Waziri-Azi said a lot of traffickers are moving away from making victims take oaths to threaten them with nude videos and explicit images online. She said: “There is an increase in online trafficking. For instance, last month I interacted with a human rights organisation located in North Cyprus which is a country that is only recognised by Turkey and not other EU countries.   Appeal Court seeks support over post- 2023 elections…     UPDATED: Buhari seeks Justice Ariwoola’s confirmation…     Interstate transporters begin 25 percent fare increase Aug…   “The organisation shared with me that North Cyprus is a country of about 300,000 people and out of the number about 45,000 are Africans living there and out of the 45,000, 25,000 are Nigerians and most of the young people amongst them are trafficked to North Cyprus for fake jobs and fake scholarships, Between September and last year when I had interactions with them, they had rescued seven Nigerian girls, all of them trafficked online, they all clicked on an advertorial that was posted on Instagram for scholarships, they applied for the admissions online, it was facilitated by the traffickers at the other end, they paid for enrollment fees online. “They were sent some enrollment admission letters which they took to the embassy and they were given something they will get Visa on arrival in Turkey and that was the same trend for the seven girls that were rescued. They get to North Cyprus, their traffickers are there to welcome them and there is no scholarship or school to attend and we’re all pushed into false prostitution. “At NAPTIP, we have seen an increase in fake job advertorials and fake scholarships via social media as Traffickers use it to recruit and catfish unsuspecting victims. Traffickers also use technology to control their victims. For instance, besides oath taking, they make nude videos of their victims and threaten to share the explicit images online. “While technology is frequently misused to facilitate trafficking in persons, its positive use helps in combat trafficking and support anti-trafficking work, such as aiding investigations that in turn enhance prosecutions, scaling awareness campaigns, development of technology-based tools that support victims and survivors and enhancing international cooperation.” Acting Chief of Mission IOM, Prestage Murima said since 2017, IOM Nigeria has coordinated the return of over 27,000 Nigerian migrants from 82 countries.