There is renewed agitation for more inclusion of women in politics and governance in Nigeria. Analysts and observers of political events believe this is justifiable, considering the number of women in elected political positions since the inception of the present democracy in 1999. As advocacy for the inclusion of more women in politics continue, below are three popular celebrities vying for political offices ahead of the 2023 general elections. Charity ‘Tonto’ Dikeh is an actress, singer, and humanitarian. The 37-year-old trained Petroleum Engineer, who hails from Obio-Akpor, local government area in Rivers State, was recently selected as the running mate for Mr Tonte Ibraye, the gubernatorial candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), ahead of 2023 governorship election in Rivers State. Her selection was first announced by her principal via his Instagram page on June 24 “After series of consultations with leaders of our party the African Democratic Congress (ADC) in Rivers State and the national level, I’m glad to announce Amb. Tonto Dikeh (tontolet) as my running mate for the 2023 gubernatorial election in Rivers State,” Ibraye wrote. Confirming the news, Tontolet also took to her Instagram page where she thanked Ibraye for nominating her for the office of the deputy governor of Rivers State. “I thank Mr. Tonte Ibraye (@tonteibraye), the Governorship Candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) Rivers State for nominating me as his running mate,” she wrote. “We are looking forward to investing massively in social protection, creating a social value system for young people, increased women’s inclusion in our governance system, supporting small businesses and strengthening our traditional institutions to be active players in the drive to bring sustainable development to the good people of Rivers State.” “I am glad to be a proud member of the #RiversRescueMission2023 Please get your PVC and join the movement. You are the Future and The future is now! #TonteTonto2023.” Olufunke Ayotunde Akindele, popularly known, as Funke Akindele or Jenifa is a film actress and producer. The 44-year-old trained Lawyer who hails from Ikorodu, Lagos East Senatorial District was recently unveiled as the running mate for Lagos Governorship candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Dr. Olajide Adediran aka Jandor.   #BBNaija – Ebuka speaks on Groovy’s alleged bad…     BBNaija S7: It’s too early to kiss you, Groovy tells Beauty     Davido declares dad ‘GOAT’   In a sponsored advert monitored by The Nation on Tuesday, July 12, 2022 Jandor announced the choice of the popular ‘Omo Ghetto’ star. According to him, Funke is from Ikorodu and Lagos East Senatorial District like the incumbent Deputy Governor and has the overwhelming popularity to garner votes. Appealing with the populace, he said: “I appeal to the entire populace to work with me and my running mate, who will add more value to my candidacy. Jenifa, following up her unveiling in a video via her Instagram page, explained why she accepted to be Jandor’s running mate; noting she is suspending her acting career to take on her new assignment. She said: “I saw it as an opportunity to help liberate and improve the wellbeing of our people, particularly the deprived youth, women and the girl child. “My decision is not just to accept this huge responsibility but to also work tirelessly and complement Jandor’s burning desire to see our dear Lagos live up to its full potentials.” “I am not unaware of the cost of this assignment on my vibrant career, which I must now necessarily put on hold. “It’s a huge personal sacrifice. My resolve is that no sacrifice is too huge for the actualisation of the urgent mission to rescue our people and our dear state.” Caroline Uduak Danjuma is an actress, movie producer and entrepreneur. The 35-year-old Environmental Protection Management, Geography and Regional Planning graduate is a bi-racial from Scotland and Eket, in Akwa Ibom State. The “Real Housewives of Lagos” star, announced her emergence as the Deputy governorship candidate for the AAC in Akwa Ibom State via her Instagram page on July 16, 2022. Sharing a campaign poster, she pledged to serve and honour the people of Akwa Ibom with the country at large in loyalty and truth. Danjuma wrote: “To serve and to honour in loyalty and in truth to Akwa Ibom and Nigeria. So help me God….” Her principal, Iboro Otu, a renowned music engineer, unveiling and defending the choice of Danjuma as running mate via his Instagram page wrote: “At a time where credible and effective leadership is in dire need in this part of the world, I spent the whole of my past months searching and researching to find the right individual for the job, one that would help in the great work of moving a vast majority of our people from abject poverty to inclusive prosperity. “I found this candidate in Chief Mrs Caroline Uduak Danjuma. An Eket businesswoman and philanthropist who has won the world in her line of endeavour.”