Tyson Fury has surprisingly defended his fierce rival Anthony Joshua after recent criticism that his fellow heavyweight boxer ‘can’t fight’. Joshua came under intense scrutiny after being beaten by Ukrainian Oleksandr Usyk at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium in September, which saw him lose the WBA, WBO and IBF heavyweight titles. The British boxer is now looking to get revenge on Usyk in a rematch due to take place on August 20 in Saudi Arabia. Bizarrely, the Gypsy King rushed to the two-time heavyweight champion’s defence and insisted he should not be criticised because he has ‘made it in life’. Retired boxer Fury took to Instagram to say: “Tyson Fury here and this is my defence of AJ. “Everyone’s saying, “AJ’s a bum”. He’s this, he’s that, “He can’t fight” because he’s lost a few [fights], but AJ has made it in life. “The man can go to the pub every single day and drink if he wants to!   Olympic champion pulls out of Stockholm 100m     Oshoala launches football academy     DStv, GOtv to beam 2022 WAFCON in Morocco   “He could go on holiday every day, he can play with his kids everyday of his life, so I don’t want to hear anymore of this bullsh**t about AJ is this or he’s that, he’s useless, he can’t fight. “The man has made it be happy for him.” Fury and Joshua once seemed destined for an all-British clash, potentially one that would crown an undisputed heavyweight champion. But Joshua’s defeat and Fury’s supposed retirement have cast doubt over the chances of such a contest ever taking place. Despite defending Joshua, it was only last week that Fury hit out at his rival for allegedly backing out of a fight with him six times and labelled him a ‘prima donna’, continuing to lambast his rival by stating he’s too happy to come second. The 33-year-old spoke to iFL: “I tried to make that fight six times at least, in my memory, in the last five years and have been unsuccessful every single time because you’re messing with a diva who doesn’t want to fight. “Years ago, when he was an undefeated knockout artist, people thought, “you know what? He could beat Tyson Fury, maybe.”