The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Pantami, will publicly unveil two of his latest books at the Stakeholders’ Consultative Forum on Emerging Technologies, coordinated by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC). The forum will hold today at the Sheraton Hotel, Maryland, Lagos. The first book, titled: Datafication of Society to Foster an Internet Economy, had its foreword written by the Secretary General of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Mr. Houlin Zhao. The ITU boss has had a long distinguished career at the union and has served as its Secretary General since 2014. ITU is the oldest United Nations (UN) agency and is a specialised agency responsible for many matters related to information communication technologies (ICT). The second book, titled: Cybersecurity Initiatives for Securing a Country, has the foreword written by the President of International Federation for Information Processing (IFIP), Prof. Mike Hinchey, a professor of software engineering at the University of Limerick, Ireland. He was previously the Director of Software Engineering Laboratory at National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Goddard Space Flight Centre in Greenbelt, Maryland, United States of America.   Lagos Assembly denies passing Sharia law     Court rules today on Oyo deputy governor’s impeachment     Why LASUTH is helping Nigeria address shortage of…   The foreword writer was also the leading graduating student during his undergraduate studies and he had his post-graduate studies at both Oxford University and Cambridge University. Emerging technologies are playing a vital role in the development of digital economies around the globe. The two books by Prof. Pantami emphasise key aspects of emerging technologies, namely datafication and cybersecurity. With respect to datafication, it shows how data – its generation, processing and use – play a critical role in determining success in the digital economy. The book on cybersecurity discusses the importance of cybersecurity in protecting data and infrastructure to secure the digital economy of countries. Mr. Zhao and Prof. Hinchey, both renowned global ICT personalities, will serve as special guests at the public presentation. The presentation of the books will take place during the Annual Stakeholders’ Consultative Forum on Emerging Technologies. Prof. Hinchey will deliver the keynote address at the event, while the speakers include Dr. Soglo of Intel, United States of America (U.S.A); Levin Born McCall of Regent Square Group, U.S.A; Richard Ogbuji of Chrema Technologies, Nigeria and other notable personalities.