Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO) on Saturday explained how Ahmed Dangana -a management consultant and a business turnaround specialist, emerged as the new Managing Director (MD) and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the company. KEDCO Chief Corporate Communications Officer, Ibrahim Sani Shawai, said the Power sector regulators, Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) and Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) had approved the appointment of the board of KEDCO Plc. The approval, he explained, followed the Federal Government’s restructuring of 5 DisCos, as a result of takeover of 3 DisCos by Fidelity Bank of which KEDCO is among. “This led to the dissolution of the KEDCO’s board of directors. And in this regard, NERC and BPE approved the appointment of Ahmed Dangana as the new Managing Director (MD) and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the company,” Shawai said. The regulators also approved Ambassador Hassan Tukur as the chairman Board of Directors. Other members of the board are; Mr. Nelson Ahaneku, Engr Rabiu Suleiman, Mr Amaechi C. Aloke and Dr. Bashir Gwandu.   Breaking barriers to north’s girlchild education     Lalong charges employment council to generate 20,000 jobs     Police inspector needs N8.6m to regain hearing loss   KEDCO said Dangana will improve the company’s revenue base, by consolidating on the achievements of past management to improve operational efficiency and deliver long term value in the company by reducing Aggregate Technical, Commercial and Collection (ATC&C) losses. “With over 16 years experience in managing diverse portfolios across multiple sectors of the economy including power, investment banking, public finance, oil and gas and agro-allied industry, Ahmed Dangana will bring on board his deep experience in business transformation to maximise value for all KEDCO stakeholders,” Shawai said. It was gathered that prior to his appointment as KEDCO’s MD/CEO, Dangana was a senior executive with Ernst and Young (EY), a multinational professional services firm providing consulting, assurance, tax and transactions services for clients in public and private sectors. At EY, Dangana was said to have led the Finance Transformation team in West Africa with focus on corporate restructure, financial management and business transformation. He led various projects with governments, development finance institutions and corporate entities on key developmental initiatives. Assuming duty, Dangana assured customers and stakeholders of “improved service delivery and electricity supply” in Kano franchise.