The arrest, last Wednesday, by the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) of a boat carrying six passengers on the Lagos waterways (five days after 17 people died in a boat mishap that occurred shortly after leaving Mile 2 in the evening), enroute Ibeshe, for plying the waterways without wearing life jackets, has again drawn attention to the disregard to transportation regulations. Many fishermen, water transportation operators, and users, basking on their “local or inborn swimming skills,” are notorious for breaching safety laws, only to turn on the heat of blame on the government once the situation turns awry. The NIWA team, returning from Ibeshe, where they had gone to commiserate with the community over the loss of the 17 people, (on Eid el-Kabir’s eve), who drowned after their boat capsized, a few minutes after take-off at Mile 2. None of the passengers, including the captain, wore life jackets. Though the NIWA Lagos Area Manager, Sarat Braimah, had pledged to prosecute the offenders to serve as deterrent to others, the this at best may be far in-between and unlikely to provide answers to insecurity of lives the state waterways. A source in the state Ministry of Transportation said the government was worried that her riverine citizens were becoming careless on the waterways, a development, he said, was putting a dent on the government’s effort to integrate water transportation as a viable mode of commuting the riverine population spanning its five divisions: Ikeja, Badagry, Ikorodu, Lagos Island and Epe (IBILE). According to the source, who preferred anonymity, the rise in “voluntary suicide” cases on the waterways is putting a “high risk” flag on water commuting, a development that may, ultimately, impact patronage, said to between 30,000 and 50,000 daily across the waterways network routes. If quick intervention is not deployed, the rising profile of insecurity may defeat the purpose of the massive investments on waterways by the Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration whose commitment to mainstreaming waterway transportation as a viable mode has been maverick with his commitment to traffic and transportation planning through the THEMES Agenda. Several times, the Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA) had declared travelling after 6pm illegal. Also illegal is moving on the waterways without life jackets. “Even if you are merely going to cut or plait your hair, buy condiments, or going for a meeting that requires you to make use of your canoe, you must use your life jacket before you row out into the water,” the source said. The sad thing about the incident was that of the 19 passengers who died, 17 were from the same father. They were going home to celebrate the Eid. The government had repeatedly conveyed the importance of life jackets to the water travellers. For a state that made ritual of the yearly distribution of life jackets (teenagers, kids and adults), across the riverine communities, it is preposterous that water transportation operators, or their patrons, could venture to travel on the waterways without this critical accoutrement. Nine months ago, 19 passengers of a boat were saved from what could have been a calamity because they  had their life jackets on when their vessel capsized after take-off from Ebute-Ero enroute Ikorodu Terminal. But the avoidable death of the Ibeshe 19, and the prevention of another last week, by the arrest of six others, speaks to the need for the government to rework its enforcement strategies and be sterner in putting an end to the madness on the waters. This is moreso because wilful disregard to safety measures on the waterways is preventing the maximisation of other efforts and initiatives being put in place by the government to promote safer waterways. Some of these initiatives, according to an operator Apiah Jimoh, includes the installation of safety buoys and other navigational aid along the waterways, alongside regular training of operators and awareness in riverine communities on the need to heed water transportation safety regulations by  NIWA and LASWA. Last month, the state had, at the maiden edition of the National Transport Technology Conference (NTTC), reeled out its massive investment and resources committed to water transportation not only to endear it to users, but to also checkmate incessant loss of lives. Sadly, however, the clean slate observed in the first half of the year, which the Sanwo-Olu administration expected to continue took a dip in the early days of this month, when two female passengers drowned, after their boat, a 20-seater vessel, departed Ipakodo ferry terminal in Ikorodu early Wednesday morning, and capsized almost immediately after take-off.   UPDATED: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd     Ondo lawmaker, farmers protest alleged forceful farmland…     BREAKING: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd   The boat named, R&N2, had submerged not more than 200 metres from the Ipakodo Jetty. The quick intervention of the water guards and LASWA search and rescue team rescued 15 other passengers. The incident, however, seemed to have woken the “beasts of the sea” as barely three days after that tragedy, a 19-passenger boat conveying 17 people late on Friday capsized along Ojo waterways area of Lagos State, leaving the passengers dead. Both Braimah and LASWA’s General Manager, Damilola Emmanuel, said the boat which set sail at 7.45pm, flouted the 7am to 6pm waterways rules. But waterways users have been expressing fears that waterways safety guards employed to enforce the rules across the waterways have compromised and lowered their guard, resulting in unsafe waters. Alhaja Taibat Shehu, a petty trader, a regular user at Ipakodo, who trades on food items at Ebute wondered why it would take NIWA to nip another incident at the bud just a few days after two other boat mishaps occurred in quick succession. According to Alhaja Shehu; “I am still struggling to come to terms with the fact that the two boat mishaps that just occurred on the Lagos waterways happened within four days’ intervals. My house is in Ikorodu and the fastest way to get to the Ebute Ero market is through the water. I commute to and fro daily on the water and often I see many of the operators flouting the laws at will. “When I resumed the market last week after the Eid, I was badly shaken by the two mishaps and you cannot imagine my worry when I learnt that NIWA just the same week arrested some people for riding on the water without jackets. For two boat mishaps to claim 19 lives, then something is wrong somewhere. The last boat mishap which claimed about 17 lives was said to have flouted waterways rules on when to operate, but the first one which claimed two lives, nothing has been said on that.” The authorities said they are investigating the cause of the mishap, but relatives have since claimed and buried the remains of their loved ones and had moved on. Another waterways user Anthony Ekpaiye urged LASWA to make its presence felt on the waterways. He urged the government to have Marine LASTMA, to apprehend willful offenders of all water transportation laws adding that especially during this time of incessant rainfall and increase in water levels, water incidents tend to be on the increase as against other seasons. “The boats operating illegally especially outside stipulated times do so because of tardy enforcement. Government needs to create Marine LASTMA to complement the efforts of Marine Police, whose responsibility it is to provide security on the waterways against pirates and other errant operators of the waterways transportation laws. Sometimes, when I use the boat from Mile 2 to Ibeshe, and atimes to Ajido, you won’t come across any security patrol boat. If there is constant patrolling of the waterways by security boats, errant operators wouldn’t willfully be flouting the rules as regards waterways navigation time,” Ekpaiye said. LASWA GM, Mr Damilola Emmanuel said the agency would continue to assure all waterways users that the government would not rest on its oars in ensuring that the waterways assets are made safe for all users. He wondered why anyone would venture to ride on the waters without life jackets, even as he said LASWA would embark on an aggressive awareness campaign across all the five divisions for all operators to help comply with the regulations to make waterways safe. To further make waterways safe, he said, LASWA would continue to enforce safety measures and go after operators of substandard boats in order to take them out of operation. He said LASWA has increased the response time for its Search and Rescue Unit from 15 to 10 minutes in order to improve response time during emergencies. He said water transportation has a very huge potential, a reason which informed the government’s investment in the sector to improve patronage. He added that LASWA would continue to sanitize the sector by taking out any operator whose activity is a threat to lives and property of waterways users. He said the government has been prosecuting any operator culpable of incidents on the waterways, adding; “One of the boat drivers whose actions led to a boat mishap some years back was recently sentenced to life imprisonment by the courts. We are coming harder on operators who are compromising standards. With the huge capital committed to the water transportation sector, we cannot fold our arms and allow mediocrity to demotivate our people from tapping into the water mode of transportation.” Emmanuel further disclosed that LASWA has partnered with a leading manufacturer of boat engines in the state to sell at subsidized prices even as the government itself often gift operators boat engines to enhance their operations as a way of incentive for supporting the government’s initiatives. He admonished passengers on the waterways to be eternally vigilant, he urged anyone who observed any illegal activity or errant operator to speak out immediately and report to the agency. He also urged them to disembark from any boat which the operator refused to comply with the state’s waterways regulation on the use of life jackets. “The life jacket can save you. Buy your own life jacket if you must. Inspect the life jackets that you are given and make sure it does not have holes or is not torn, and avoid travelling on the water at night,” Emmanuel said.