Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike has vowed that no antics of his predecessor, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi and All Progressives Congress(APC) 2023 governorship candidate, Tonye Cole, will stop them from appearing in court for allegedly looting the State’s treasury. Wike, who declared that Rivers people would not allow them to preside over the affairs of the State again, said even if they hire 500 Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SAN), his government was ready for them. Wike said there was statewide consciousness to safeguard the State from those interested only in looting the commonwealth of Rivers people. The Governor spoke on Thursday shortly after signing the contract for the construction of the 11th and 12th flyovers, and the dualisation of Azikiwe Street- Illoabuchi Road in Port Harcourt, between the State government and Julius Berger Nigeria PLC at Government House, Port Harcourt. He said: “They can run helter-skelter to stop their arraignment but they must be arraigned and tried. What Rivers people will hear, Rivers people will be shocked to know what the former governor of the State and Minister did in this state with his partner, Tonye Cole. “If they (Ameachi and Cole) like, let them bring 500 Senior Advocates of Nigeria, they will face the trial. So, that Nigerians will hear, Rivers people will see how this state was looted. “Anybody can be Governor but not those we have identified that have looted the State treasure. If we can do 12 flyovers from 2019 to now with the little amount of money we are getting, imagine what the previous administration would have done. “The previous administration that had a lot of money had done them, we would have concentrated on other things. But we are still working within the city to change its landscape.” The Governor said individuals were desperate to cover their tracks and that Rivers people would not allow them to take over their affairs.   Davido joins JayJay Okocha at 2022 CAF awards     Okonjo-Iweala advises Nigeria on WTO fisheries cash     Tiwa Savage performs at 2022 CAF awards   Wike said: “This state must be guarded. We cannot allow people who don’t have the interest of this State to take over the affairs of this State. People who have looted the treasury of the state clearly.” The Governor said his style of politics and governance was clearly different from other politicians, who took the people for granted and hardly fulfilled their promises. He said that the good of Rivers people and the state remained the priority of his administration, adding it was the reason more projects were still awarded as he prepared to leave office on 29th May 2023. He said: “So, we are very proud that this administration has kept all the promises made to the people. So, it gives us joy. Some people would have said why not go with the money. “But I asked, how much money can you make? What can you amass as against the interest of the people. So for us, we are very happy and anybody who is working with this administration can carry his shoulder high that we have made a difference as far as governance is concerned.” Speaking further, Governor Wike informed that payment for some of the ongoing projects had almost be completed with their inauguration in view. “We have finished paying for the first phase of the Trans-Kalabari Road. We have finished paying for the dualisation of Bori to Kono Road. We have finished paying for the Ada George- Rumuepirikom flyover. We have almost finished paying for the first phase of Ahoada Road”, he said. Wike told the construction company, Julius Berger Nigeria PLC that excuses would not be tolerated from them because 80 per cent of the contract sum had been released to the company with the monthly N2bn irrevocable standing order of payment. The Governor also commended leaders of the State for the immerse support that they had given to his administration to succeed. Managing Director of Julius Berger Nigeria PLC, Dr. Lars Richter, said the contract they had signed with the Rivers State Government was for two new flyover bridges that would be completed in 10 months and the dualisation of Azikiwe Street- llloabuchi Road in 6 months. He said: “You set on your own record of 10 flyovers, but now you beat your own record to make it 12 flyovers. I think that this is big challenge but you will surmount. We have completed and commissioned 6 flyovers 3 more are near completion stage, one ongoing, which shows the confidence that the State government has in Julius Berger Nigeria PLC.”