An indigenous firm, Mangal Industries Limited on Thursday performed the groundbreaking ceremony of a cement plant in Iluagba, Kogi State. Mangal Industries had signed a US$600m deal with Sinoma International Engineering, of China, for the construction of a three million metric tonne per annum cement plant and a 50MW captive power plant in Kogi State. The Managing Director of the Cement Company, Engr. Fahad Mangal, shortly after the ceremony, said that the project is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2024. According to him, work has already commenced with the site levelling and foundation workout, adding that when completed, Mangal Cement will bridge the gap of housing deficit as well as cement production in the country. He stated that the company will also add value to the nation’s economy by creating thousands of jobs for the immediate communities and youths in the country, as well as revenue generation for both the state and the Federal Government. He said that that their vision is to become the major player in the production of cement in Nigeria, and urgedthe Chinese constructing firm to deliver the project according to specification and on schedule.   Rite Foods fetes Nigerians at Ojude Oba     Stakeholders advocate collaboration for effective…     ‘Covid-19 made outsourcing more inevitable’   He stated as part of its vision, the company is to provide quality in cement production in West Africa. He commended  the  Ijumu and Mopa communities and the Kogi State government for their support and cooperation. General Manager, Sinoma, Mr. Zhang Sicai reiterated the commitment of the firm in delivering quality job as and on schedule, using the best technology available. TmChairman of Ijumu LG, Taofiq Isa and his Mopa-Amuro counterpart, Hon. Moses Sunday, lauded the decision to site the project in Okun land, saying the two LGAs are ready to work together to ensure the overall success of the plant. They expressed optimism that the concerb will usher in good tidings to Okun land, Kogi State and Nigeria in general, and urged the company to see the LGAs as partners in progress. The Olujumu of Ijumu, Oba Williams Ayeni, said “this ceremony is a dream come-through for us and God has finally answered our prayers for a gigantic company like this that will help reduce unemployment among our teaming youths.” Other dignitaries present at the ceremony included the Obaro of Kabba and Chairman, Okun Area Traditional Council, Oba Solomon Dele Owoniyi, the Elulu of Mopa, Oba Jerome Joledo, Agbana of Isanlu, Oba Etombi Moses, Olu Gbede of Gbede, Oba Olusegun Oloruntoba, Olu Adde of Ekinrin-Adde, Oba Anthony Bamigbaiye, Elejuku of Ejuku and Olu of Iluagba -Gbede.