The name of Hon. Chijioke Edeoga was not published as one of the 2023 governorship candidates for Enugu State by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), The Nation can report. Edeoga was reported to have switched over to the Labour Party (LP) and emerged as the party’s governorship candidate after losing the governorship ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to Peter Mbah. However, his name did not appear as INEC published the particulars of some Governorship and House of Assembly candidates nominated by parties for the 2023 general elections in the State. Our correspondent who visited the INEC office Friday evening, observed that Agbo Casmir Uchenna was rather listed by INEC as the LP’s governorship candidate for Enugu State with Edeoga Benjamin Odo as his running mate. Particulars of other Labour Party House of Assembly candidates were also listed.   Fresh trouble for Tambuwal, Bala, others as court axes Umahi     2023: Buhari hails APC leaders over choice of candidates     Abubakar Aliyu and the never-ending power grid collapse   The particulars published by INEC also included those of governorship candidates, their running mates as well as Assembly candidates. The information included that of PDP, Barr. Peter Mbah and his running mate, Ossai Ifeanyi Martins as well as that of the candidates for the 24 State Constituencies. It also included information on the candidate of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), Nweke Frank and his running mate, Ugwuanyi Edith Ngozi and the House of Assembly candidates. Others are information on the governorship candidate of the Action Alliance (AA), Ogbe Chukwunonso Daniel and Iyida Ikechukwu Onyedika as the deputy governorship candidate and house of assembly candidates. It also included information on the candidate Peoples Redemption Party, Agu Christopher Ejike and Deputy governorship candidate, Oziko Chigozie. As of the time of filing this report, particulars of the APC candidates and other parties were yet to be published.