One non-communicable disease that is giving Africa’s medical experts serious concern is stroke. And the reason is not far-fetched: the continent is now about the global capital of the disease. This was the submission of Dr Rufus Akinyemi, a medical expert. Akinyemi told the audience at a two-day African Stroke Leaders’ Summit with the theme “Operationalising a Roadmap for Reducing the Burden of Stroke in Africa: Vision 2030”, that there was the urgent need to tackle the challenge from the womb to the tomb. The summit was organised by the African Stroke Organisation (ASO) in partnership with Africa-UK Stroke Partnership Project (AUKSPP) in Ibadan. Some statistics put the annual incidence rate of stroke in Africa at about 316 per 100,000 individuals, which is within the highest incidence rates in the world, and the prevalence rate of 1,460 per 100,000 reported in one region of Nigeria, claiming that this is among the highest in the world. Similarly, Ekenze, O.S. et al in a profile of neurological admissions at the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital, Enugu, in 2010 say that ‘’Stroke is the leading cause of medical coma in Nigeria. It is also the leading cause of admissions from hypertension-related complications, accounting for 40% of hypertensive complications in the University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital, Nigeria. In several studies from the West African sub-region, it emerged as the leading cause of adult neurological admissions, constituting up to 65% of such admissions.’’ This statistics are too grim to be ignored. Yet, some years ago, it was thought that stroke was not an African issue. “About some decades ago, it was thought that hypertension and stroke are rare in Africa. But we know that stroke is a big problem on the African continent today. In fact, we like to describe Africa as the global stroke capital based on its huge burden because factors that drive it affect us from the womb to the tomb”, the medical expert said.   If gold rusts…     Managing migration     Kebbi power   According to Akinyemi, factors that drive stroke in the continent affect individuals through their lifetime, hence, the need for such a talkshop to examine the issue holistically, with a view to examining the burden of the disease, to enable them draw up an action plan which the ASO, national societies and countries could plug into to reduce the prevalence of stroke in Africa. Indeed, the essence of ASO that was formed about 20 months ago is to see to a reduction in the prevalence of stroke on the continent. “We are doing this by focusing on four key pillars of promoting stroke research; promoting and enhancing stroke services; advocacy, building capacity and training of the work force to combat the burden of stroke”, Akinyemi said. This distressing disclosure is another low for a continent that is battling all sorts of challenges, both self-inflicted and natural. The continent is home to several jobless youths, it suffers huge infrastructural deficits: inadequate power supply, poor medical facilities, bad road networks; Africa is bogged down by political instability and internecine conflicts. It is a continent where most comforts of life that are taken for granted elsewhere hardly work. Indeed, it t is a continent where life could be so brutish and short. All of these are enough to give people stroke. So, any effort by those who know about the disease to reduce its prevalence on the continent should be welcome. Here, we cannot discountenance the observations of Dr Augustina Charway-Felli, President, African Academy of Neurology (AFAN) who dwelt on the inadequate specialist care for stroke and the very few neurologists in many African countries to handle the many cases. African governments must do everything possible to meet the WHO recommended 1 to five per 100,000 neurological experts as against the present 0.12 per 100,000. Nigeria, specifically must check the brain drain in this regard as well as train more personnel to enable them cope with the cases. There is also need for increased public awareness on stroke prevention, de-stigmatisation of people with stroke, as well as education on the advantage of seeking medical attention early, and differences between what is normal and abnormal with ageing.