President Muhammadu Buhari, said yesterday that the emergence of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as the   presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was a true reflection of the will of the members of the party. Tinubu, the President said, emerged from a purely democratic process. Buhari spoke when he paid Sallah homage to the Emir of Katsina, Abdulmumini Kabir Usman. Accompanied on the homage by Katsina State governor, Bello Masari, the president also urged all Nigerians to show understanding with government as it continues to tackle the challenges facing the country. Recalling the events leading to Tinubu’s victory at the APC June primary, Buhari said: “When the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) signaled parties to elect their presidential candidates, we had 30 aspirants, mostly ministers in my cabinet and governors. “I told each of the aspirants to go and do their best. One particular governor, in his wisdom, came to meet me and asked who they should vote for at the party convention, checking if I had a preferred candidate. “There was no need for interference, knowing the competence of all the aspirants. They went and elected Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and he picked his running mate, Sen. Kashim Shettima. I am praying that we will have peaceful and successful elections.” President Buhari, who thanked Nigerians for their support for the APC in 2015, and 2019, said he had a rich experience in 2003, 2007, 2011 and 2015 presidential elections, travelling to all the 774 local councils in the country, and in 2019 visiting 36 states. He said since Nigerians elected him in 2015, his administration has been doing everything to fix the country. He asked all citizens to do their best to protect the country, saying if Nigerians know how difficult it has been for other African countries, they will thank God for their country. “They say he who wants to serve should be ready for the responsibility of leadership. Three times I wanted this position and three times I ended up at the Supreme Court. For that reason, in terms of experience, I have gathered a lot. I visited 774 local councils in 2003, 2007, 2011 and 2015,” his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, Buhari quoted him as saying. “I feel privileged that Nigerians elected me in 2015. Since then, we have been doing our best to tackle the challenges, with God helping us. We are not alone. If only we know what other countries in Africa are passing through, we will be grateful to God, and protect our country. Other African countries are passing through a lot. “As leaders, we are doing our best, and will keep doing our best to improve the situation. I am praying that the Almighty God will give us more strength and wisdom to protect our people, and fulfill our promises of ensuring wellbeing.” The President said his administration would keep doing its best to address the concerns on security, which the Emir of Katsina and Governor Aminu Bello Masari highlighted in their remarks. “I have heard all that the governor and emir have to say on what people expect from government. I will not add anything. I am the one receiving the orders. I will continue to do my best,” he said. In his remark, the Governor of Katsina State thanked the President for his foresight in closing the borders across the country to promote local production of food, which led to self-sufficiency.   Hold FG responsible for violence in Nigeria –Ortom     Two Catholic priests kidnapped in Kaduna     Gunmen abduct top NDDC official, demand N10m   He said the lockdown during COVID-19 epidemic would have been more devastating if Nigeria was depending on other countries for food, noting that many countries and their citizens suffered more. Before departing Katsina for Abuja, Buhari donated four bulls, two to the army and two to the airforce, bags of rice and some money to those fighting banditry and terrorism in the state for their Sallah celebration.   Tinubu-Shettima ticket Nigeria’s best bet, says Adeyeye The Bola Tinubu-Kashim Shettima ticket is Nigeria’s best bet for the 2023 presidential election, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Dayo Adeyeye has said. Adeyeye, who spoke to journalists in Abuja said there was nothing to fear about the choice of a Muslim as Tinubu’s running mate, saying: “Those raising fears about possible Islamisation agenda under Tinubu-Shettima presidency should free themselves from such fears. “If Tinubu, a practicing Muslim did not Islamise his own wife who is a pastor all these years, then what would make him attempt to Islamise Nigeria? “Those opposing the Tinubu-Shettima pair are doing so because they know clearly that it’s a winning ticket that Nigerian voters are willing to bank on. They only want to distract the APC presidential candidate and his running mate. Adeyeye, who is the chairman of the South West Agenda (SWAGA), a pro-Tinubu political group, also reminded critics of Tinubu’s benevolence towards the Christian faith when he was the governor of Lagos State from 1999 to 2007. “I can recall that it was Tinubu that returned all Missionary schools in Lagos to the Christian Missions. These schools had been taken over by previous administrations in Lagos before Tinubu became governor in 1999. “He took the decision and he stood by it, despite the fact that there was stiff opposition to his action. Tinubu is a Muslim but the missionary schools he returned belonged to the Christians and he even released grants to them for their take off. “Tinubu fought for freedom of thought and association of Nigerian citizens for a better part of his life. Is it now that he would want to stand in the way of the religious beliefs of other Nigerians? It’s just bad politics. “In politics, the most important thing for the candidate of a political party is to win the election using the right running mate who would complement his efforts by assisting him to achieve his aim. “Unlike in the other parts of the country, religion and politics mix together in the northern part of Nigeria where there is a large voter population, who believe that politics is part of their religion. It will therefore be suicidal for any politician to disregard that obvious fact, and act based on sentiments. “If any political party must win from the North, there must be a Muslim from the area on the ballot; either as number one or number two. That was the reality that dictated the choice of Kashim Shettima.   Story By Bolaji Ogundele/ Gbade Ogunwale, Abuja/  Augustine Okezie, Katsina