Speaker of House of Representatives Femi Gbajabiamila has inaugurated an ICT Centre he facilitated as his contribution to the development of education in Birch Freeman High School and for pupils in his Surulere Federal Constituency. He inaugurated the centre as part of activities marking the Annual Homecoming of the Birch Freeman High School Boys Association, which took place at the school hall in Surulere. Gbajabiamila, who was represented at the event by the former Executive Secretary of Surulere Local Government, Mrs. Aduke Bamidele Hussein, emphasised that the Speaker was emphatic on promotion of quality education in Surulere. “His legacy is to promote the literacy level of our children in Information Technology,” he said. The Speaker also emphasised that the project was one of many being facilitated by him. They include construction and renovation of school buildings, construction and renovation of roads, empowerment of constituents and provision of modern education facilitates to students in Surulere constituency. He, however, advised the school authorities to maintain the centre and put it to proper use for the students. Global President of the Birch Freeman High School Old Boys Association, Rev. Babatunde Adenekan, lauded the Speaker for the giant stride and assured him that the old boys would ensure proper maintenance and provision of Solar panels and inverter to enable the students put the centre in good use without any interruption due to power failure. He also thanked members of the Education Committee of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Commissioner for Education, Tutor General /Permanent Secretary of the Education District 6 and the Principals of both Junior and Senior high Schools for their cooperation towards ensuring that the old boys contribute their quota to the development of their alma mater.   Fed Govt committed to skills acquisition for youths     ‘Plans underway to construct 18 mega schools in Northeast’     Teach For Nigeria launches Incubation Hub Programme   The Tutor General and Permanent Secretary of Education District 6 of the Lagos State Ministry of Education, represented by one of the directors, Mr. Paul Legbeti, described the Speaker as a wonderful achiever. He confirmed that Gbajabiamila was indeed a great blessing to both the people of Surulere and Lagos State at large. He reiterated that the Speaker is someone filled with the fear and spirit of God, having considered it fit to facilitate such magnificent projects both in schools and around the communities in Surulere. Public Relations Officer of the association, Mr. Eyitayo Ijaoribe, advised other old students associations to support the government by contributing their own quota to the development of their schools as the government could not do it alone. The PRO also thanked the Speaker for providing the school with modern ICT centre that would equip the pupils with adequate knowledge in the information technology world. At the gathering, which had old boys from different sets who graduated from the institution, awards were given to deserving old boys who have contributed to the association, school and the society through their professions. Gbajabiamila was also presented an award as friend of BIFOBA, having supported the school and contributed to providing facility for the promotion of quality education. He was also honoured for inaugurating roads around the Birch Freeman High School which included, Akobi Crescent, Owokoniran Street, Olaniyi Steet, Fashoro, Bishop Street, Mabo Street, Shodipo Street and other roads leading to the school. Guests and old boys at the event were treated to various to dishes, drinks and with music by a live band.