From a distance, no one will mistake Peter Obi for someone who is vile or a troublemaking politician. His charisma, calm smile and robust brilliant mind reveal him to be a gentleman who espouses the principles of civility and democracy. But such can’t be said about the followers of the Labour Party presidential flag bearer. His online supporters are condescending, vitriolic and sharp-tongued. They see any criticism against the man as personal insult. They view every dissent as an attack on their candidate. They want to ride the horse of tyranny to make their candidate president. In a world where you can’t have a contrarian view, where every dissent is clamped down with tyrannical disdain, it’s said that democracy indeed dies in darkness. This is the world of Obi’s horde of supporters. It’s heart-wrenching to observe. A good example is their recent rampage against social media influencer and ex-Goodluck Jonathan aide, Reno Omokri. Needless to say, Omokri has been a vehement, open and unashamed supporter of the People Democratic Party’s candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. In the opinion of Omokri, the APC has failed the country in leadership, governance and security. Also, he doesn’t see Peter Obi winning the popular vote based on his political calculation and permutations. Hence, he’s pitching his tent with PDP. Now, for Peter Obi’s supporters, Omokri has committed the unpardonable sin. To them, anyone who has decided not to be obedient to the cause of their political mascot is an infidel, to be treated as a pariah. What’s more, they argue that Omokri should be removed from the social media space. The little tyrants, Orwellian thought-police have begun to campaign on Twitter for the removal of Omokri. Their groupthink philosophy is that if he doesn’t agree with them, he doesn’t deserve to have any social media platform to express his views. In the alternate reality of social media, he should be burnt in an outer court.   Ganduje frees 90 inmates in celebration of Sallah     Nigeria under siege of terrorists, bandits – ACF     Nigeria faring better under Buhari – Presidency   Omokri is not the only one that bears the burns of holding an opposing view. Almost every influential Nigerian right now on Twitter are afraid to express their belief and campaign for their chosen candidate because of the fear that Obi-dient tyrants will come for them. They’ll also lose their cyber space and end up an online nonentity. This is alarming. For people who claim that they want to save Nigeria from the verge of tranny, it’s ironic and pathetic that they have become tyrants themselves. They’ve built around them an impenetrable bubble that doesn’t permit anyone else in. This bubble is veiled and opaque that they themselves can’t look outside and see their opposition as fellow humans, fellow Nigerians. After all, political theatre is a marketplace of ideas. If your idea is strong and convincing enough to resonate with the populace, why try to bully others into silence? Why try to stifle dissent? Perhaps the reason could be that the ideas and ideals that Peter Obi espouses are not strong enough in their own merit that there’s a need to silence the opposition. Perhaps the simple fear that others might consider other alternatives is so great in these fanatics that they will rather cut the tongues of those who dare speak in its name. A candidate can’t be imposed on anyone. What we need aren’t some online tyrants that call others names and threaten to deprive them of their social media space. What we need is a robust discussion about where our nation is going and who is more qualified to take us there. Enough of this mob rule. Lagos.