The Coordinator of Tinubu Legacy Forum(TLF) Diaspora Chapter Alhaji Olatunji Musibau Quadri spoke with Online Editor Sunday Oguntola on the 2023 presidential poll and the chances of the Tinubu/Shettima ticket, among other issues. Excerpts:   What are the chances of the Tinubu/Shettima ticket? First of all, Tinubu/Shettima victory is unstoppable. Their administrative competence, skills and success stories have adequately prepared them for the leadership of the country. Asiwaju Tinubu is the only answer and the right person to solve Nigeria’s numerous problems. This man is surrounded with technocrats, achievers , people with foresights from South to North. Tinubu is a movement, and it did not happen overnight; he planned for it, worked hard for it, reached out for it, and made sure he gave it his all in all he did; today, he is the Champion. The man that revolutionised Lagos, took it from military ruins and transformed the city. Asiwaju has the presidential map for 2023 in his hands, therefore let’s get moving. What’s your take on the uproar against the Muslim/Muslim ticket. I see nothing wrong in a Muslim -Muslim ticket. It makes no difference. It’s unfortunate Nigeria has been badly polarised along ethnic & religion divide. Maybe Tinubu/Shettima victory will reset our brain to kill religion in our polity. Maybe we can finally get down to the real issues of assessing the candidates/tickets on what they have to offer. The Peter Obi movement popularly known as Obidient is growing on social media. Do you think it stands any chance in the actual political field? Yes on social media win but won’t be the President of Nigeria in reality! How does your group intend to contribute to the APC presidential campaign?   2023 shouldn’t be about religion – SDP…     Young professionals rally support for Tinubu     Why I chose Idahosa as running mate – Kwankwaso   Our agenda on the Forum is to get the information out to major cities in America, Europe and other countries where we have a large population of Diasporas. With Chicago as the headquarters. Nigerians in the diaspora are hereby encouraged to call their family members in Nigeria to get their their PVCs and vote Bola Tinubu for President come 2023 election. Just get your PVCs, go out on election day and cast your one vote for Asiwaju. We are also on the internet, newspapers, radio, and doing really campaign for Asiwaju Presidency here in the U.S., United Kingdom and on going till Election Day. We will come back to Lagos, Nigeria for victory dance come 2023. Why should Nigerians vote for the Tinubu/Shettima ticket? Tinubu/Shettima towers over all of them in terms of competency and illustrous records of feats in public service. Both Asiwaju Tinubu and Shettima are extremely competent and capable to lead Nigeria to greater heights. They are both an excellent experienced public administrators and Patriot to the core. With a population of over 40 million members, the APC will by the grace of God, win the 2023 elections fairly and squarely. A new Nigeria is possible. The PDP presidential candidate had 12 million votes in 2019. Isn’t that a threat to APC victory in 2023? That was then and this is now! What’s your position on the possibility of Diaspora voting in future elections? Request for Diaspora voting is one of the major reasons why we support Asiwaju for president. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu presidency, come 2023 will extend voting rights to Nigerians living abroad, to join a growing number of countries in Africa and around the world to recognize emigrant voting rights. This is one of the reasons we’re gathering support in the Diaspora and across the length and breadth of Nigeria for Tinubu presidency, come 2023 and we have approached Madam Abike Dabiri Our plan is also to request for Nigeria Consulate in Chicago: Chicago in the state of Illinois is a magnet for local and foreign visitors. On a yearly basis more than 46 million local and foreign visitors travel to Chicago for tourist or business purposes. Many foreign business travellers visit Chicago for it’s huge business and trade centers. Foreign tourists visit Chicago mainly for it’s major landmarks such as the wold famous Sears Tower. To be able to assist foreign tourists, business people and locals of the greater Chicago region many countries have established consular offices in the city. The duty of foreign consulates in Chicago is to assist with consular matters involving visitors from abroad as well as people who are living in Chicago. But guess what? There is no consulate of Nigeria in Chicago. It’s about time to have a Nigeria government official building in Chicago that can assist in passport and visa issues, as well as document certification and the like. That Nigeria government official building in Chicago, Illinois will also service other neighboring states like Indiana, Wisconsin, Iowa, Ohio and even Michigan.