The recent piece by Femi Adesina, the Special Adviser on Media, to President Muhammadu Buhari, titled “warning shots from Kigali” after a visit to Kigali Genocide Memorial,  was well aimed and smoking. Whether it decimated the target in the form of making the target abjure hatred is another matter altogether. Of course, Femi’s objective is to give hatemongers an opportunity to learn from the heart-rending stories of what hate caused in Rwanda, and for them to desist from their dangerous mixture of combustible materials. What Femi did not however manifest in his piece is whether his principal, our dear president, Muhammadu Buhari, learnt relevant lessons from the visit to Kigali Genocide Memorial. If the president learnt his lessons, Femi did not advert his write-up to such, including any potential change of style and actions. But before I espouse why I say so, let me join Femi to trumpet that hate can truly kill a nation, and Nigeria is dangerously stymied in obtrusive hate actions and words. So, I join him to ask that we retrace our steps. In his piece, Femi trained his well-aimed warning shots on hate speeches and acts by Nigerians, especially those speaking from the pulpit and the minarets, but not a word of condemnation about hate actions and speeches by those in authority. Of course, since he did not mention names, it will be unfair to judge whether he was fair or unfair to such persons, except if one has to juxtapose his earlier diatribe with some men of God, as the targets of his warning shots from Kigali. Some of the preeminent men of God Femi had aimed his diatribe in the past include the Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Most Rev. Dr. Matthew Hasssan Kukah, and Bishop David Oyedipo of Winners Chapel, and there are pellets in the shots from Kigali to reach the conclusion that the two men maybe among Femi’s current target. So, if they are amongst the targets, I hope they are not amongst those Femi referred to as the “so-called Bishops”, since both have eminently lived up to their titles as Bishop. If Femi insists otherwise, then he can legitimately be accused of engaging in hate speech. But more importantly for this piece, is what many have regarded as hate actions manifested by the skewed appointments of President Buhari, in clear violation of the 1999 constitution as amended. But even most important is whether the president has learnt the important lesson behind the Kigali memorial, which I believe is to keep the despicable act of genocide in public consciousness and to enforce a national penance. The main essence of this intervention is therefore to encourage Femi to advise his principal, President Muhammadu Buhari, to initiate a memorial in honour of the genocidal victims of 1966/67 in our country, Nigeria. The other essence of this essay is to encourage Femi to also advise the president to appreciate that he is the leader of a multi-ethnic and multi-religious nation, and that such consciousness should reflect in his actions, otherwise he would be accused of engaging in hate actions.   Senate defection fever     AGF vs State AGs     Agents provocateurs   Should Mr President initiate the building of such a memorial, he would distinguish himself from the pack of other past presidents and leaders, including Gen. Yakubu Gowon, who as post-war leader had the best impetus to do so. While those who love to live in denial like the Ostrich, would think such a memorial is irrelevant, since the victims where vanquished in the war that ensued soon after the genocide, the benefit as Femi and the president must have seen, is to keep the despicable act in public consciousness and to abjure a repeat, under any guise. Some of the Ostriches would even deny the waves of genocidal killings of Igbos and those associated with them, mainly in the northern part of the country before the beginning of the war. Such denials instead of healing the wounds exacerbates the injury, which in turn feeds the disillusionment of those affected directly and indirectly affected by the genocide. Perhaps such hurt feelings feeds the hate speech that Femi is complaining about; and without assuaging the hurt, those affected would tell Femi, in the words of immortal Fela kuti, ‘teacher don’t teach me nonsense’. Without such a memorial, those who engineered and/or participated in the genocide can easily forget their atrocities and forgive themselves. And of course, the generation after them would have no reminders to make them believe that such despicable acts of hatred took place in our country. Furthermore, without such a memorial that stirs the conscience of the protagonists, what stops them from seeing what happened as a fair game, which can be repeated for the fun of it? In writing this reaction to Femi’s warning shot from Kigali, I dusted up Emma Okocha’s book, titled: ‘Blood on the Niger – the first black-on-black genocide’, which gives a detailed acts of genocide against the Igbos of western Nigeria. Considering the status of Izoma Chief P.C. Asiodu, who was a member of General Gowon’s war cabinet, I figured that I should quote extensively his preface to to Okocha’s book to underscore the argument for a war memorial, to stem the hatred Femi hammered on in his piece. According to Asiodu: “At Asaba and environs, from October 2 to the 7 in 1967, horrible massacres were committed by the federal troops. Hundreds of men were slaughtered as a result of cold, deliberate planning. Men of all ages, including promising youths in their prime as well as teenagers and septuagenarians, were shot in cold blood.” He went on: “The massacres were militarily unnecessary and were unprovoked as the Midwest were already re-conquered from Biafra troops, and Asaba was firmly in the control of Federal troops. There were absolutely contrary to the war aims of the federal government and the Code-of-Conduct issued to the Nigerian Army.” He also wrote: “For so long, the truth about the massacres has not been told in any details. It is necessary to tell this truth in homage to the innocent who fell and partly in service to the nation by excising from its conscience any lie about the critical events of its history, to enable it grow and to make sure such wanton fratricide never recurs.” In the preface to the second edition, an eyewitness and survivor of the massacres, Dr Ify Uraih, wrote: “Over a thousand youths in their prime were buried in a mass grave at Ogbeosowa. There is no monument, nothing to remember those souls for their sacrifice.” Also, the one-sided appointments, under President Buhari, which has reignited the fault lines that trouble our country, is too open to warrant any waste of space here. In conclusion, I can only say to Femi that charity should begin at home.