Mixed reactions have continued to trail the death of actress Ada Ameh. The film star was said to have died on Sunday night at a hospital in Warri, Delta state. Her death was also confirmed by Emeka Rollas, president of the Actors Guild of Nigeria (AGN). Ameh was popular for her role as Emu in Africa Magic family drama, The Johnsons. The actress’ demise comes a few weeks after she announced that she was battling mental health issues. “I have an issue right now and it’s taking my life but I won’t die. We would get over it. I was given a job, but I didn’t do it because I have mental health issues,” she had said. Born on May 15, 1974, in Ajegunle, Lagos, Ameh became a popular face in Nollywood after playing the role of Anita in the 1996 blockbuster, Domitila. The actress featured in other movies, including “Oloture”, “Our Husband”, “King Of Shitta”, “Ghana Must Go”, “A Million Baby”, “My Village People”, etc. Ameh, who went through series of life battles, once revealed how she got pregnant at 13 after her “peers” introduced her to “early sex.”   UPDATED: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd     Ondo lawmaker, farmers protest alleged forceful farmland…     BREAKING: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd   The actress spoke about the ordeals of being a teenage mother during an interview with Chude Jideonwo. She said after giving birth, she was thrown into the streets, where she began indulging in alcoholism and her “newly found freedom.” “It wasn’t my parents. My peers influenced me. They introduced me to early sex. One thing led to another, and I got pregnant,” Ada Ameh said. Sadly, Ameh went through so many challenging moments. She lost three sisters who had three children each. She also lost three of her brothers and her father. Despite her early motherhood, the actress, in October 2020, lost her daughter, Aladi Godgift, who was over 30. Aladi died after an unsuccessful surgery in Abuja. In October 2021, the bereaved mother visited her daughter’s grave site to mark her one-year remembrance. Appearing on TVC’s Your View on July 1, 2022, which was her last interview as obtained by The Nation, the actress revealed that she suffered max depression even before her daughter’s death but it worsened after she lost her child. “I had depression, max depression. I’ve been depressed for some years, and it worsened when I lost my daughter in 2020. We practically grew up together. She was like my younger sister,” Ameh said. She also noted that she had lost seven of her family members before losing her daughter. “I had lost three sisters before that time, and each had three children. I’ve lost three of my brothers and my father. So after mourning all these people, and then (I lost) my daughter,” the actress said. She said: “When my daughter died, my world crumbled before me, and sometimes, I see myself crying for days.”