Brazil full-back Dani Alves recently turned 39 and is without a club but remains determined to play for his country at the World Cup Dani Alves finds himself as a free agent after a brief, second spell at Barcelona. “I didn’t leave sad,” Alves says of his six months at the Camp Nou, which followed a turbulent stint at São Paulo. “I left happy to have returned to Barcelona. I dreamed for five years of wanting to live this second moment. The only thing I didn’t like was how my departure was handled. “Since I arrived, I made it very clear that I wasn’t any more a 20-year-old guy and that I wanted things to be done head-on, without hiding things. But this club has sinned in recent years. Barcelona doesn’t care about the people who made history for the club. As a culê [Barcelona supporter], I would like Barcelona to do things differently. I’m not talking about myself because my situation was another scenario. I am eternally grateful to Xavi and the president for bringing me back. “I found a club full of young people with incredible ideas on the pitch,” says Alves, who played 17 times for Barcelona in his second spell having featured 247 times during a trophy-laden eight-year first spell. “But it needs to improve the work outside the field. The mindset is totally opposite to what we built a few years ago. Everything that happens on the field is a reflection of what happens outside.   JOE ARIBO: European title my target at Southampton     MO FARAH: How I was trafficked to UK as a boy     ADAORA ELONU: WHY I CHOSE BASKETBALL AHEAD OF SOCCER   Since Alves left Barcelona last month, he has been linked with a number of clubs, including Real Valladolid, who are majority-owned by fellow Brazil legend Ronaldo. A deadline for finding a new club has not been set, but the criteria are clear. “I like challenges and I adapt to any situation,” Alves says. “Today I am unemployed, but interesting things have come up. I’m doing my study about places to go which have a good level of competitiveness. Having turned 39 in May it is perhaps inevitable Alves’s age is mentioned whenever the prospect of him extending his career is discussed. He acknowledges it is an issue but believes he remains capable of performing at the highest level. “I know that everyone is talking about my age, that I am old, that 20 years ago everyone wanted me and today not. But I completely disagree because I have an experience today that I didn’t have 20 years ago. When there’s a big game, 20-year-olds get nervous and worried, but I don’t. “Age has its pros and cons. There are many things you do when you’re 20, but you don’t do it when you’re older. Maturity comes from just living. I also have the experience of having lived almost everything in the sport”. Alves is one of the leaders in Brazil’s squad and was present throughout their World Cup cycle. Even so, he knows that he needs to perform at a high level to secure a call-up for the World Cup squad by Tite. Their longstanding and trusting relationship is a guarantee of nothing.