From Mushin to Spain, Taiwo Alimi reports the phenomenal grass to grace rise of Nigeria’s newest goal-queen, Super Falcons’ star Rasheedat Ajibade. Nigeria and Barcelona forward Rasheedat Ajibade has been talking about her phenomenon rise from Mushin-Lagos-based local team Robo FC to Spanish giant club-side Atletico Madrid. “I grew up in Mushin. I’m a proud Mushin girl. I was playing for FC Robo, and I will never forget what coach Osahon used to tell us. That we have to learn to adapt wherever we found ourselves. I learned the meaning of focus under him. He would say it doesn’t matter where you come from, what matters is your destination.” Truly, her story has been that of grass to grace, rising from the slum of Mushin to grace European soccer in the colours of one of the biggest teams on the continent. Rasheedat left FC Robo financed by teammate and Barcelona forward Asisat Oshoala, for Norwegian side Avaldnes IL in 2018. Two years later, she left the club for the Spanish club side, Atletico de Madrid Femenino. She won the most valuable player at the 2017 edition of the Asisat Oshoala Foundation Football4Girls and she went on to represent Nigeria twice at the U-17 and U-20. She was named in the WAFU team that finished third in 2018 and was named in the title-winning Nations Cup team later that year. Ajibade was named in Nigeria’s team that got to the second round of the FIFA Women’s World Cup in 2019. Rasheedat is also a consummate scholar with two degrees to her credit. She, who obtained her first degree in Accounting in Nigeria, before securing the second in Europe, thanks to the global lockdown, said she came from a family that doesn’t joke with education. In a recent interview with the Caf website, Ajibade, who has a degree in Accounting and Sports Psychology, explained why she had to delay her move into professional football. “My family likes education. I feel like I had to finish my degree first. It was important for me to finish school because I was also underage to move abroad so it was a bit challenging because when I saw people that I was older than playing in Europe – while I was still playing in Nigeria – it was tough,” she said. “But when things like this happen, you have to know the right time to make a move. When you believe in God, things align and fall into place. “Education is very important because you can fall back to it after you are done playing football.   Economy quakes under biting inflation     Business, consumers groan as inflation wreaks havoc     How CBN is fighting inflation    “It is by God’s grace. It would help if you had the discipline and you have to be focused, and train hard. Everything is still God’s grace because I know where I came from and all, and to represent my country in underage football and the national team, it’s hard work and God’s grace.” The 21-year-old forward has a degree in Sports Psychology from the Barca Innovation Hub, and when asked how difficult it was for her to study while playing active football, she said it was down to determination. She continued: “I made up my mind to do it, and it was a little easy because I was studying from home due to the pandemic. In the end, I finished and I thank God. I want to do more, get more certificates” In the absence of Oshoala, who could not play due to injury, at the 2022 Women’s Africa Cup of Nations (WAFCON), Ajibade was impressive, as she actively stepped into line. Ajibade’s smart header and the lone goal in the quarter-final match between Nigeria and Cameroon secured the World Cup ticket for the nine-time Africa champions-Super Falcons in Morocco. After a goalless first half at the Stade Mohammed V in Casablanca, the Atletico Madrid forward powered the West Africans to victory in the 53rd minute – heading Ifeoma Onumonu’s cross past goalkeeper Ange Bawou. Ajibade, who has three goals to her name, and was named player-of-the-match, later took to social media to celebrate.  Relishing the triumph and qualification for the 2023 Women’s World Cup, to be co-hosted by New Zealand and Australia, she wrote on her Twitter handle: “Every time I call, he answers me. My help comes from the Lord. Naija, we are going to the World Cup.” Though she was red-carded in the semi-final clash against host country Morocco, Ajibade said she was proud of her accomplishment at the championship. She looked back at her humble background to declare her love for God and excellence. The Atletico Madrid attacker was also instrumental to the Super Falcons’ defeat of the Swallows of Burundi as she grabbed a goal and a hat-trick of assists.