The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has cautioned a High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) against granting bail to the suspended Accountant General of the Federation (AGF), Ahmed Idris, and two others. Idris is standing trial, with three others, before the court for allegedly diverting about N109 billion from public coffers. Idris, his Technical Assistant, Godfrey Olusegun Akindele; a director in the office of the AGF, Mohammed Kudu Usman, and a firm linked with Idris, Gezawa Commodity Market and Exchange Limited, were arraigned on July 22 on a 14-count charge bordering on stealing and criminal breach of trust to the tune of N109,485,572,691. Arguing the prosecution’s counter-affidavit yesterday, its lawyer, Rotimi Jacobs (SAN), likened the alleged offences for which the defendants were being tried to terrorism and genocide. Jacobs told the court that Idris and his co-defendants committed criminal breach of trust, which is a serious offence for which they should not be granted bail. The prosecution lawyer urged the court to consider the nature, gravity and the weight of the charges, saying they are sufficient to warrant the refusal of their bail applications. He described the case as a public office offence “which is equal to terrorism and genocide,” and should be handled with all seriousness. Jacobs told the court that the prosecution was ready for the commencement of trial.   Abdulrazaq declares July 29 work-free for voters…     Bryann plots against level two housemates     Chief Judge jails lawyer for alleged contempt   Lawyers to the defendants – Chris Uche (SAN), Peter Abalaka and Mr. Mohammed Ndayako – had prayed the court to grant bail to their clients. Uche, who represented Idris and his firm, argued that the alleged offences with which his clients were charged are bailable and not capital offences. The defence lawyer said Idris was granted administrative bail by the EFCC and that he did not abuse the bail earlier granted him. He averred that his client has people who would stand sureties for him and prayed the court to allow him on bail on liberal terms. Abalaka, who represented Akindele, argued that the prosecution’s counter-affidavit was hinged on sentiments and prejudices, adding that this does not have a place in the trial. He added that his client was law-abiding and would not disobey court orders. Ndayako, who represented Usman, spoke in similar vein and urged the court to admit his client to bail on liberal terms. After listening to the lawyers, Justice Jadesola Adeyemi-Ajayi adjourned till today for ruling.