Chairman, All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Anambra East Local Government Area of Anambra State, Chief Joseph Ekwealor has said the Governor Chukwuma Soludo-led administration required the support and prayer of all and sundry to deliver on its campaign promises. Ekwealor, who made the call weekend at his country home, Umuoba Anam, Otuocha, however called for patience from residents as the government commenced implementation of its developmental initiatives. He said there was no doubt that Soludo is carrying heavy burden of expectations on his shoulders, stressing that it could take some time before the impacts of his ‘Soludo Solutions’ mantra would be felt around the state. While applauding Soludo for his systematic and innovative models of governance, APGA boss urged residents at home and in diaspora to rally behind the government to take the state to greater heights. He said, “We know that Soludo is carrying a heavy burden of expectations on his shoulders right now as people expect so much from him. But let us bear in mind that such things as development does not happen overnight or few months.   Ex-ABU students’ leader wins Edo Labour Party senatorial…     Operation Show of Force: NCoS, military collaborate     Poor network connectivity won’t hamper trial census,…   “He needs our support, especially now that he is trying to bring some radical changes in the state.” Speaking on his recent Award of Excellence for a Distinguished Community Service’ by Rotary Club of Enugu Municipal, Ekwealor said he felt fulfilled that his grassroots development efforts was recognized by such international organization. “The Rotary award for my community service was very emotional to me because it finally reminded me that the reason I returned from South Africa to champion development at the community level was not waste of efforts and resources. “The recognition, has also spurred me to do more, especially now that I am a political leader. It was like adding a new oil to an engine for optimum performance. “I look forward to contributing my quota to the development of my constituency and Anambra State in general,” he adds.