The Rural Electrification Agency has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the National Fadama Development Project (NFDP) to  collaborate on several activities during the planning and implementation of electrification programmes targeted at agriculture, land and water resources. It noted that in order to give effect to some of its initiatives, REA has obtained $1.1billion financing amounting from $550 million ($350 million from the World Bank and $200 million from the African Development Bank (AfDB)) for financing the Nigeria Electrification Project, and an additional $11 million for financing the Rural Electrification Fund for the deployment of Solar hybrid mini-grids and solar home systems.  These funds will ensure that millions of Nigerians have access to clean, safe, reliable and affordable electricity, said the agency in a press statement yesterday. According to REA, the MoU is also expected to consider the agency’s recently-launched Energising Agricultural Programme (EAP). It explained that the EAP is a three-year initiative with the Global Energy Alliance for People and Planet (GEAPP), with funding from the Rockefeller Foundation, that aims to stimulate the use of mini-grid electricity in agricultural productive uses. The agency added that these  “Agro-Energy” programmes are intended to provide electricity for productive use and unlock the economic potential/activities in rural and agrarian communities alike. It noted that so far, the agency has communicated and cooperated with stakeholders during the pre-implementation stage, including support in conducting desktop and field surveys to identify viable sites. The statement reads in part: “The other stakeholders include the At-Risk Children Programme (ARC-P) and National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI). The Rural Electrification Agency (REA) is an implementation agency of the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN), under the Ministry of Power (FMP), primarily tasked with improving electrification in unserved and underserved communities.   I’ll not let you down, Adeleke tells Timi of Ede     Lagos steps down new abortion guidelines     Kuje attack: Senate shocked by no CCTV, porous security   The National Fadama Development Project (NFDP) is an agriculture programme (Under the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, and in collaboration with The World Bank) designed to increase the incomes of the users of land and water resources on a sustainable basis. More specifically, and in line with REA’s proposed agro-energy programmes, the NFDP’s component 2 (Small Scale Community Owned Infrastructure) aims to rehabilitate surface water and construct new small-scale irrigation schemes and borehole schemes, as well as other groundwater irrigation schemes and infrastructure support. REA intends to provide decentralised solar pumps and/or centralised solar mini-grids to viable FADAMA irrigation schemes. The National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI) are a Federal Government Agency mandated to provide assistance, durable solutions and support to persons of concern, including Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), Refugees, Migrants, Asylum Seekers, Stateless Persons, as well as Returnees. REA intends to provide Solar Home Systems (SHS) and Solar Street Lights (SSLs) to viable IDP communities. “Previously, the Agency proposed a framework to internalize planned electrification programmes into the national budgeting process, highlighting funding sources and partnerships, and designing an integrated approach to ensure that the ERGP/ESP targets are fulfilled” Sequel to the approval and inclusion in the year 2022 budget, the Agency intends to implement the framework to improve livelihoods, specifically in rural communities, through programmes targeted at providing electricity for productive use in healthcare centres, markets, schools, agriculture, etc. The framework, underpinned by the MoU between both parties, is expected to be implemented in a sustainable and impactful manner, while also addressing one of the Agency’s strategic objectives – to promote electricity consumption for “productive use” in the country. The MoU will mutually benefit both the REA and FADAMA. Both parties are keen to unlock the economic potential in agrarian communities, through the provision of electricity solutions for agro-processing and irrigation schemes”. Ahmad Salihijo Ahmad, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Rural Electrification Agency “The MoU will ensure timely communication and cooperation during the implementation stage of the programme, including support (where applicable) in conducting field surveys, monitoring/supervision and impact assessments. “Subsequently, this agro-energy programme, as well as other proposed programmes under the framework, will be implemented to demonstrate opportunities for the private sector. And based on the lessons learned, viable agriculture-energy solutions and business models can be adopted and scaled commercially”. Barka Sajou, Executive Director, Technical Services, Rural Electrification Agency “We wish to re-affirm our commitment both from the National and State FADAMA offices across the country to ensure the success of this partnership for the sustenance of the livelihood of Nigeria farmers, enhance food security, increase Farmer’s income, as well as contribute to mitigating climate change due to GreenHouse Emission. “We thank you for believing in the FADAMA Program and are looking forward to a fruitful collaboration.” National Coordinator, FADAMA, Mr Abdurrahman Balarabe.”