Foremost international promoter and acclaimed “King of Dubai night life, Azeez Olanrewaju Adenekan aka Lanre Typical has continued to rock Dubai , United Arab Emirates with his “Afrobeat Takeover” initiative by unleashing top Nigerian DJ trio, DJ Neptune, DJ Xclusive and DJ Spinall on the city. On Tuesday, DJ Neptune was on hand at Dubai’s favourite midweek ladies night tagged #dimetuesdays. The international Disc Jockey unleashed his mastery of the wheel to deliver top notch entertainment, dishing out numbers after numbers of premium Nigerian music. DJ Spinall is expected to hit the city on July 14, 2002 as part of the package for the Lanre Typical’s “Afrobeat Takeover’. The international Disc Jockey, record producer, songwriter and label executive is to go live with his craft at VII Dubai. While Spinall is the headline act for the show he will be getting some solid support from DJ Sam Benjamin, DJ Shoni and VDJ Tribe, Superstar DJ Xclusive isn’t expected until July 26, 2022 for another ‘Dime Tuesday’ experience in the City of Gold. The social media is already agog for the show which will be padded with some supporting acts like VDJ Tribe and Savage Fasho Lanre Typical is a top-notch, award-winning Nigerian entertainment executive/promoter who celebrates the finest talents and outstanding individuals in the Nigeria/Africa entertainment industry, bringing the very best artists from Africa on monthly basis for the nightlife experiences to Africans based in Dubai and in the entire Gulf region.   Simi becomes first female artiste to reach 100m streams on…     Money, success can’t change me – Davido     AVRS, NCC meet stakeholders in Lagos   He is the CEO of TypicalNaija.ng, a blog known for fashion and music distribution. He also owns a celebrity gents salon in Dubai called Typical Gents Salon. In 2019 alone, Lanre Typical brought over 30 Nigerian artistes to Dubai and the list includes the likes of Zlatan, 9ice, Peruzzi, Harrysong, Slimcase, Reminisce, Qdot and many others. And his exploits have not gone unnoticed as many awards have come his way. In 2019 alone, he won Scream All The Way’s Showbiz Promoter of the Year award as well as MAYA Awards Africa’s Show Promoter of the Year Award. In the last six months he has brought the likes of Davido, Naira Marley, Zlatan, Mohbad, Kcee, Portable, Ice Prince, Ceeza Milli, A-Star, Ckay, Tiwa Savage, Mayorkun, Skiibii and Ntosh Gazi from South Africa amongst others. On June 30th , he shipped in Asake to the delight of the Dubai audience and plans are in top gears to fly in DJ Spinall, DJ Xclusive and DJ Neptune on different dates to perform at different locations in Dubai.