The African Helicobacter and Microbiodata Study Group (AHMSG), a new group of African medical researchers on the study and management of ulcers on the continent, has been presented at the Nigerian Institute of Medical Research (NIMR), Yaba, Lagos. The group, drawn from African countries, was presented by Director-General, NIMR, Prof. Babatunde Salako. It will serve as an adviser  on research in Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori). NIMR’s Director of Research, Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Prof. Stella Ifeanyi Smith, was unveiled as the president and convener of African Helicobacter and Microbiodata Study Group Initiative (AHMI). She owns one of the main labs where the diagnosis of H. pylori is done for the treatment of this pathogen. She is the only African H. pylori consultant in the Maastricht VI project, a European consortium from 29 countries. She is a consultant to the R.E.G.A.I.N project, a European consortium on Real World Gastritis Initiative Project that spans 29 countries, with her as the only African. According to Smith, who is a professor of Microbiology at the Mountain Top University, Ogun State, the study is  advancing Helicobacter pylori research in Africa, by leading efforts to determine the prevalence, diagnosis, treatment and management of H. pylori infection and associated complications on the continent. The disease, previously known as Campylobacter  pylori, is a gram-negative, microaerophilic,  spiral (helical) bacterium usually found in the stomach, the founding AHMSG President said, adding that the bacterium was first identified in 1982 by the Australian doctors Barry Marshall and Robin Warren.   Nirvana sickle cell Initiative partners Access Bank     FG assures the elderly, retirees of health insurance     Eight side effects of smoking cannabis   For some people, an infection can lead to stomach cancer. Infection with H. pylori is common. About two-thirds of the world’s population has it in their bodies. For most people, it doesn’t cause ulcers or any other symptoms – though there are medicines that can kill the germs and help sores heal. After H. pylori enters the body, the germs attack the lining of the stomach, which usually protects humans from the acid the body uses to digest food. Once the bacteria have done enough damage, acid can get through the lining, which leads to ulcers.These may bleed, cause infections, or keep food from moving through your digestive tract. People usually get H. pylori from food, water, or utensils, since it’s more common in countries or communities that lack clean water or good sewage systems, though it can also be picked up through contact with the saliva or other body fluids of infected people. Speaking on how to tackle the bacteria, Smith urged African leaders to wake up to the dangers H-pylori poses to its citizenry. She said: “What I want to tell the government is that although H-pylori is neglected in Africa, not only in Nigeria, we decided to fill in that gap because we know that Helicobacter pylori infection is real. It actually causes gastritis, as well as some percentages of gastric cancer. Our research is to try and focus on what we believe H-pylori research will bring to bear in Africa. So, whatever research we’re doing is not for Nigeria alone. We’re working towards living, improvement of diagnosis (because that’s another problem) the treatment as well as management of Helicobacter pylori,” she added. Highlighting the dangers of H-pylori, the medical scholar said the disease causes gastric cancer. “You know that anything that causes cancer is not anything you need to play out with. The World Health Organisation in 1994 called it a class one carcinogen. So, it actually causes cancer. And in countries where gastric cancer cases get as high as five per cent, one is usually at the risk of time in the long run. So, we need to nip the issues of proper diagnosis of Helicobacter pylori in the bud. So, we can look at the culture because if you don’t culture, you probably don’t know the exact treatment to give the organism. Our group is going to conduct in-depth research on the Helicobacter pylori diagnosis, treatment, and management in Africa,” Smith added. Considering the status of this pathogen, researchers, policy makers and governments in America, Europe, and Asia have paid keen attention in the diagnosis, treatment, management and control of H. pylori. However, in Africa, H. pylori are more or less a neglected pathogen. In a review in the World Journal of Gastroenterology in 2019 on infection with H. pylori and challenges encountered in Africa, it was shown that the prevalence of H. pylori infection in Africa was as high as 80 per cent (could be higher because some regions lack actual prevalence data) and there was no African guideline as compared to the Maastricht V/Florence Consensus of Europe, American College of Gastroenterology (ACG) clinical guidelines, Toronto consensus, Asia-Pacific consensus, Chinese National consensus, etc. Hence the birth of AHMSI. Another scholar, Dr Mohammed Alboraie, a researcher, who majored in internal medicine and gastroenterology, Al-Azhar University, Egypt, advised African leaders on need to do more to tame the effects of H-pylori on Africans. He said his group is making  unique solutions to gastric disorders, especially the H-pylori. “African researchers have come together to proffer solutions to Africa because other countries may have different types of resistance patterns and bacteria to the antibiotics. In Africa, we didn’t have a group that studies the bacteria affecting the stomach. So, we gathered here to offer some solutions, customised to African countries. For example, the economy in Africa is different from that in Europe or America. “Also, the antibiotics may not be the same as those in America or Europe. Some antibiotics are effective in our population in Africa which may not be active in Europe and America. Also, on the diagnosis of the disease, we may use other forms of diagnostic tests which may be suitable and effective in Africa, but not in America and Europe. The bacteria have different strengths and resistance and that’s why we are studying our population in Africa and studying the effectiveness of the drugs here and proffer the best solutions for our population.”