The above question was the focus of Apero 7 which came up on Saturday July 25, 2022. Fully prepared with facts and figures ably marshaled and delivered, our speakers wowed the over 200 zoom participants who stayed glued to their screens for four hours. Professor Ibiyemi Mojola, chairperson of the session, didn’t mince words. She identified our challenge as the imbalance in the federal system which cedes security of the entire country to the center, which has refused to effectively deal with the threat posed by foreign Fulani herdsmen. For her, security is the foremost duty of government; but a centralized security has condemned citizens to the invasion of murderous herdsmen. She also wondered why the ill-advised, twice rejected, Water Resources Bill was brought back. Professor Mojola decried the loss of Omoluabi ethos among Yoruba folks who have abandoned their moral norms for the vices of the Nigerian state. To avoid a national tragedy of loss of identity, she argued that the only reasonable pathway is Yoruba national sovereignty. Our moderator/rapporteur, Professor Siyan Oyeweso went down memory lane, tracing the history of constitutional evolution in Nigeria. He observed that pre-colonial Yoruba nation had a system of governance that historians recognized as rivaling some of the developed countries, with its Kabiyesi-In-Council and separation of powers, which effectively dealt with dictators. According to Professor Oyeweso, Chief Awolowo perfected the art of political administration with his liberal policies. Unfortunately, we have regressed because of the lopsided federalism that we now practice. Mr. Seye Oyeleye, Director General, DAWN Commission, spoke on “Current Political Systems and the Impediments to Growth in Western Nigeria”. Observing that Nigeria has not been functional in the last few years, Oyeleye noted the challenge of rising inequality, the threat of insecurity, epileptic power system with the National Grid collapsing six times in 2022 alone. Furthermore, we have grim social indices of development with over 85 million without electricity, 18.5 million out-of-school children, and a decrease of about 81.46% in foreign investments from 2019 to 2022. Such an unflattering statistics comes with high unemployment, poverty, hopelessness, despair and anomie, resulting in individuals taking up desperate measures, criminal activities included, to fend for themselves. Hence cultism, gangs, kidnapping, armed-robbery, and cybercrimes. DAWN Commission is aware that Western Nigeria is not an island in the misery that has befallen the country. Its mission is to reposition “Western Nigeria for economic competitiveness in spite of the country’s limiting political system.” It has lived up to its billing, encouraging the Southwest “to develop a common set of integrated development strategies”, which “guarantees cost-effectiveness and economic competitiveness” in “infrastructure, industrialization, commerce, the environment, and agriculture”. Among others, the Commission has advanced a cocoa development, recovery and sustainability strategy, aptly named “Let’s Do Cocoa”. It has also facilitated “a progressive increase in States’ Ease of Doing Business National Ranking” and it has conceptualized the “Western Nigeria Rice Accelerated Programme for Integrated Development (RAPID) to improve rice production in the region by creating opportunities for States to take advantage of the Lagos rice market” and the upcoming Imota Rice Mill. In addition to proposing a regional health insurance scheme, the Commission is the brain behind the creation of Amotekun, Western Nigerian Security Network, which has helped to some extent with curbing herdsmen atrocities and kidnapping. The point of Mr. Oyeleye’s submissions is that though we have a suffocating quasi-unitary system pretending to be federal, states can still do a lot if they strategize as regional or zonal economic and political blocs. Mogaji Adegboyega Adejumo, an Afenifere chieftain and member of its National Caucus, is a formidable and charismatic intellectual with vast knowledge of national politics and experience in national and international banking and finance. He spoke on restructuring as a desirable political pathway for Yoruba nation and Nigeria. For Mogaji, restructuring means simply that there is a marker for the boundary of the “farm” of each region, and each must go at its own pace as was the case in the first republic when every region was engaged in healthy competition to provide for the welfare of their people. It was how Premier Okpara copied the concept of Industrial Estate from Chief Awolowo and sited one in Aba. Mogaji observed that it was the split within Action Group that ultimately led to the destruction of federalism by the military. He argued that one region or state cannot successfully carry on secession without being crushed. Therefore, we must pursue restructuring with like-minded regions like Southeast, Southsouth, and Northcentral. This was the rationale for the formation of Southern and Middle Belt Forum (SMBF) initiated by the Yoruba Summit Group.   On women and youths     Choosing to act     Then the locusts invaded   Importantly, Mogaji insisted that Yoruba Nation advocates and restructuring advocates are speaking a common language and the groups must come together to forge a workable alliance with other zones in order to prevail. He insisted that only the United Nations can conduct a referendum as it did in the case of Cameroons in the 60s. For him, Apero should be an ongoing program until the goal is achieved. Mr. Olayemi Afolabi, also speaking on restructuring, argued that we must have a constitution that reflects the wishes of Nigerians. For him, a way to achieve the goal of restructuring is to have a true democrat at the helm of affairs with the power and the will to effect the needed change. For him, a referendum is necessary to ascertain the will of the people. Professor Wale Adeniran is, in his own words, “an unrepentant agitator for an independent Yoruba country.” Reviewing the constitutional history of Nigeria from 1960, he argued that Yorubaland has always been a target for destabilization since independence, and he believed that the motive was to cut short the progress of Western Region rather than engage in healthy competition with it. This goal was realized with the suspension of the federal constitution in 1966 and the reversal to a unitary constitution. Adeniran observed that the prospect of true federalism has gone from bad to worse since 1966 and Yoruba nation has borne the brunt of the burden, as proposals like Ruga policy and Water Resources Bill threaten the security of Yoruba nation. His argument against restructuring is that it is too late in the day and the Fulani leadership will not agree to it. This leaves us with only one option, namely Yoruba sovereign country which will offer full protection for everyone. Adeniran believes that Yoruba nation satisfies the conditions for recognition as a sovereign nation, which include peoplehood, a defined territory, large population, and adequate resources. A Yoruba nation of his dream will have a parliamentary democracy, without partisan politics, with the adoption of a zero-party system to avoid abuse and corruption, and no immunity for political leaders. Our final speaker, Barrister Aderemilekun Omojola, also spoke on the desirability of Yoruba Sovereign Country Now. With a slide presentation that is highly informative and effectively delivered, Omojola defined sovereignty as the occupation of a defined territory by a permanent population having a capacity for international relations and recognition by the international community; and self-determination, as the inalienable right of a people which is God-given. From this, he argued that the Yoruba, being a people, have a right to self-determination which Nigeria must respect. For Omojola, self-determination is not treason because Nigeria itself is a derivative of the self-determination that citizens granted her, and the Nigerian constitution must respect international law which guarantees self-determination. Besides, nepotism, corruption, terrorism, failed infrastructure development and failed industrialization, leading to poverty are all products of a flawed structure which the powers that be refuse to correct. For Omojola, then, the unbalanced structure of Nigeria’s federation, which is invalid by the standard of global best practices, and is responsible for the failure of governance, necessitates the demand for Yoruba sovereignty. Cultural preservation requires self-determination. Apero 7 was another success. Apero 8 is this Saturday same time. With Chairman Oloye Alao Adedayo (Alaroye), Moderator Professor Ademola Dasylva, speakers include Dr. Lasisi Olagunju, Professor Niyi Osundare and Mrs. Bamidele Ademola-Olateju. No one should miss this powerful group of presenters.   Saturday July 30, 2020 4:00 pm Lagos Time Zoom ID: 87834935009 Passcode: 690337