Mr Isdore Chikere on Tuesday assumed duty as the 14th substantive Commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Anambra Command. Chikere replaced Mr Everestus Obiyo, now redeployed to Zone G headquarters of NSCDC, Benin. A statement issued by Mr Edwin Okadigbo, the command’s Public Relations Officer in Awka, said the formal handing over and taking over were completed on Tuesday. Obiyo used the medium to thank Dr. Ahmed Abubakar Audi, the Commandant General of NSCDC, for the opportunity given him to contribute his quota to the fight against crimes and criminality. He appreciated the efforts of his management team, Area Commanders, Divisional Officers and other ranks for their commitment, loyalty, discipline and cooperation. Obiyo charged them to extend the same cooperation to his successor. Also speaking, the new commandant, Chikere, thanked his predecessor for his leadership role and promised to follow the footprint he left behind.   Don’t drop Okowa as running mate, Igbo youths warn…     Buhari reappoints Saratu Umar as NIPC Boss     Owa to Oyetola: your re-election a walkover   He assured that the mandate reposed in him by the Commandant General would serve as tonic in the discharge of his duties. Chikere called  on the people of the state to extend their hands of fellowship to his administration, promising that with the collective efforts of all stakeholders, Anambra State will enjoy relative peace . In his remarks, Mr. Felix Oke, the Assistant Commandant General in charge of NSCDC Zone K Awka, who witnessed the handing and taking over ceremony, commended the outgone Commandant for a job well done. The new State Commandant hails from Ahiazu Mbaise Local Government Area of Imo  State. Chikere is an alumnus of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, where he studied Health and Physical Education and graduated with Second Class Upper Division. He was enlisted into the NSCDC in December 2005 and  rose through the ranks. He has held several operational, investigative and administrative positions in various state Commands of the federation. Chikere last served as  the Commandant in charge of Disaster Management  at the NSCDC Zone G Zonal Headquarters Benin, Edo State, before his present appointment. (NAN)