The Peoples’ Democratic Party(PDP) in Lagos State has claimed the choice of Funke Akindele, running mate to its governorship candidate is already unsettling the All Progressives Congress(APC). The actress’ choice was made public last Tuesday at Ikorodu area of Lagos. The announcement has however attracted several reactions. While some have commended her choice, others criticised it. Lagos APC decried her choice and said the opposition party had turned serious business of politics and governance to comedy. Responding to the APC’s outcry, the PDP said, it was obvious that Akindele’s emergence as running mate to Abdulaziz Adediran, was already causing problem for the APC. In a statement by Hakeem Amode, Lagos PDP Publicity Secretary, the party said: “The popularity and acceptance of our party alongside our candidates in the next year governorship election in the state were already unsettling the APC in the state.   Tinubu will fix Nigeria in eight years – Danyaro     Olaniyan’s counsel fumes over impeachment panel     UNICAL class of 1986 donates books, institute prize for best…   “In one of the news reports, the APC was quoted to have underscored the choice of Funke Akindele as the Deputy Governor’s choice of the PDP and capped our party as unserious. “One cannot but laugh at the jitters the choice of Dr Abdulazeez Adediran sent to the party, which has resulted in several recent meetings and gatherings of the APC party members and the fear which the choice of Funke Akindele has added to the already jittering party structure that led to their reactions. “We would like to inform the APC that the table has turned, Lagos state and the good people living therein are tired of the few gathering at their lord’s table to determine the life and living standard of the people of the state. “We hereby urge the party to see the handwriting on the wall and starts to prepare the hand-over note. “We are not surprised that the APC as a party is not finding it easy in its illusive political comfort zone and we are well aware of their antics and underhand in the previous elections and we are using this opportunity to warn the party to desist from its character assassination, divide and rule tactics and politics of bitterness, which have remained the roots of their political gain. “It is imperative to remind the APC party that our youths are well informed now and knowledgeable with information to see beyond the party APC and its government make believe projects in the state. “Funke Akindele, a graduate of Law from the prestigious University of Lagos and a holder of National Diploma from Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Ilaro is someone who knows and understands that power belongs to the people.”