About 11,226 personnel of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) are for deployment to all the 31 local government areas to ensure the peaceful and orderly conduct of Osun Governorship election on Saturday. The Commandant-General of the Corps, Dr Ahmed Audi, gave approval for the deployment for effective coverage and manning of polling units, collation centres and protection of critical national assets before, during and after the elections. Ahmed enjoined the personnel to work hand in hand with other security agencies to forestall any form of unrest or breach of the peace in the 3,763 polling units throughout the 31 local councils. In a statement by Director of Public Relations of the Corps, Olusola Odumosu, the Commandant-General said the deployed personnel were drawn from the national headquarters and nine State Commands of Osun, Ondo, Ekiti, Oyo, Ogun, Lagos, Kwara, Kogi and Edo.   Buhari: ‘Something to remember me by’     Choosing to act     Double jeopardy? Just as well!   He said: “The CG stated that the objectives of the Corps in the forthcoming election is to create a secured environment for its successful conduct and enhance the general security in the State before, during and after the election. “He explained that personnel had attended various workshops on best practices during election. “They have also been acquainted with the provisions of the Electoral Act as regards to Rules of Engagement, hence, must comply with the Corps’ Operational Code, Standard Operating Procedure and above all, display of professionalism and high sense of discipline throughout the election. “This robust operational order has been activated to ensure a hitch free exercise and guide against molestation and intimidation of the electorates by hoodlums or party thugs. “Dr Audi hinted that, in readiness for the election, the Corps’ undercover personnel from the National Headquaters have joined their counterparts in Osun State for covert operations to nip any security compromise in the bud.” The NSCDC boss said Deputy Commandant General (DCG) in charge of Operations, Dauda Mungadi would oversee the election exercise.