Stakeholders in Arochukwu Local Government Area of Abia State have pledged their support for the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Ikechi Emenike. They made the commitment at Ututu Local Government Area when they received Emenike . Emenike was at Ututu where he inaugurated branded campaign vehicles of the APC candidate for Arochukwu Federal Constituency, Chief Dan Okeke, who said he had acquired the vehicles months before the primaries because of his strong belief that Emenike would be victorious. Community leaders, party stakeholders and women leaders who spoke at the event vowed to work hard to ensure the APC sustained its grip on Arochukwu/Ohafia Federal Constituency. They expressed their joy at Emenike’s candidature as the APC governorship candidate.   2023: North West APC backs Tinubu-Shettima’s ticket     Pan African Farmers Organisation appoints Nigerian CEO     Banditry: Extend security forces’ retirement age,…   Okeke appealed to the people to come on board ‘the moving train’ of Chief Emenike and contribute with their votes to put Abia in the hands of a competent leader. The House of Representatives hopeful said his only regret was that he didn’t come to know Emenike early enough to start ‘drinking from his milk of human kindness, high principle, intelligence, leadership skills and practical ideas to make Abia rise from slumber’. He added: Emenike is the only man that has used his position and connections to empower Abia people. He has attracted so many federal jobs to Abians. This is the only man who will work with technocrats, people of integrity to develop Abia. He is forthright and that’s why fraudulent people demarket him because they know he won’t give them space to operate and waste the resources of Abia if he becomes governor.” Emenike, in his response, said: “We are looking for men and women of goodwill who will join hands with us to rescue Abia so we can set it on the path of accelerated development.” He urged the people of Arochukwu/Ohafia federal constituency to support his rescue mission as the end product will benefit every Abian as well as residents.