Factoring has major impact on the growth of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs)  and the financial services industry, the Financial Institutions Training Centre (FITC) has said. The FITC made this known during  its second virtual quarterly  roundtable themed: “Factoring: A game-changer for the growth of MSMEs and the Nigerian financial services industry”. FITC Managing Director/CEO, Chizor Malize, noted that the event was timely, given the benefits of factoring to Nigeria’s economy. “As a big supporter of SME’s, FITC remains committed to not only identifying key challenges faced by these important group, but also creating the platforms where solutions can arise. I am certain that significant outcomes will be reached to move factoring forward for the ultimate benefit of small and medium businesses and the long-term growth of the Nigerian economy,” she said. Secretary-General, FCI, Netherlandsin, Peter Mulroy,  said factoring involves a shift from the usual mindset of securitising real assets to securitising financial assets, thus making receivables an investable asset class.   Flourish Africa Fund empowers 500 female entrepreneurs     NGX woos investors to Africa’s growth market     Roles of capital market in national development, by experts   “For many SMEs, receivables are a significant component of the balance sheet liquid assets and unfortunately, they often lie dormant. Receivables financing thus aims to unlock the real value of these receivables,” Mulroy stated. The FCI Secretary-General pointed out that there are 41 FCI members in Africa, up from 10, a decade ago. According to him, this signals the growth and acceptance of factoring as a means of SME financing in Africa. Director, Financial Systems Strategy (FSS 202), Central Bank of Nigeria, Ibrahim Hassan, said the objective of the Nigerian Factoring Working Group (NFWG) is to create an opportunity for every business in the country to thrive. He stated that Nigeria has an MSME financing gap of $15.8 billion, hence the need for innovative financing to bridge this gap.