The Appeal Court has validated the candidacy of Senator Ademola Adeleke as the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in last Saturday’s governorship election in Osun State. The appellate court threw out a suit filed by another PDP candidate, Dotun Babayemi, challenging Adeleke’s candidacy for the election. Babayemi had challenged Adeleke’s emergence as PDP candidate in a primary election conducted by the leadership of the PDP. He had been elected in a parallel primary election conducted by his faction and had insisted on being the rightful candidate of the party. A lower court in Osogbo, the Osun State capital, had thrown out Babayemi’s case and he had challenged the lower court’s ruling at the Court of Appeal. But the PDP yesterday expressed satisfaction with the judgment of the Appeal Court.   ‘Kerosene price rose by 12.09% in June’     Dockworkers shut terminals     CAF AWARDS 2022: Oshoala may pick record fifth African …   In a statement after the judgment, the party said: “The judgment is a firm confirmation that the Osun State governorship primary was transparently conducted by the Senator Dr. Iyorchia Ayu-led National Working Committee (NWC) in strict compliance with the provisions of the PDP Constitution and Electoral Guidelines, as provided by the Electoral Act and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended). “Our party commends the Judiciary for its courage, adding that the judgment has further restored the confidence of Nigerians on our judicial system and the processes of the PDP.” Adeleke has said his incoming administration will usher in a brighter future for the state. He defeated incumbent Governor Adegoyega Oyetola of All Progressives Congress (APC) with 403,371 votes against the governor’s 375,027 votes. Speaking after receiving his Certificate of Return at the INEC office in Osogbo, Adeleke dedicated his victory to his late elder brother, Senator Isiaka Adeleke, and the residents of the state. INEC National Commissioner in charge of Osun, Ogun and Oyo states, Professor Kunle Ajayi, who presented the certificates, praised the people of Osun State for the peaceful conduct of the governorship election. He said: “In consonance with the provision of Section 72 (sub-section 1) which mandates INEC to issue a sealed Certificate of Return to the governor-elect and deputy governor-elect within 14 days after declaration of result by the Returning Officer. “Having conducted a free, fair, credible and inclusive election on July 16, 2022, on this note, I would like to sincerely thank every participant here present for sparing time to attend this important occasion of issuing of Certificates of Return to the governor-elect and deputy governor-elect of Osun State,” he said.