Fans of popular actress and movie producer, Rita Dominic aren’t allowing her ‘limited’ height weigh her down, as they have gathered around her with beautiful compliments. Dominic via a tweet lamented about her height, wondering where she was when the Creator was sharing it with others. “Sometimes I wonder where I was when height was being shared..”, she tweeted accompanied with several emojis. Reacting to her post, fans, full of soul-lifting words; complimented her looks and personality. @klaysign tweeted: “You know you are the cutest babe alive right? Your height is just perfect for you and sometimes I wonder where you were before I got married. So please stay comfortable and confident in how you were created to be ok? You are God’s Designer’s Original.” @ScorpStarr said: “You were collecting abundant beauty so missed the height.” @saintstica wrote: “You were busy dragging beauty with Rihanna.” @Ifunnaya2 stated: “You’re taller than Tonto, use that one hold body.”   I’m Afrofusion singer, not Afrobeats, Burna Boy…     I’d have five baby mamas if I were male artiste – Tiwa…     Meaningful success never falls from sky – Obi Cubana   @big_manhenty tweeted: “You heard they were sharing beautiful faces. So you left. Unfortunately, before you could return, height was almost shared. What you have now was the third to d last piece that was left. It’s still a big win.” @geybreh said: “The height of it, is your greatness, you’ve been a role model, an inspiration @ritaUdominic.” @carrie_jovial wrote: “If you collect beauty and still collect height, which one will now remain for us Check am nah.” @Brownhaird stated: “You were busy collecting beauty and talent. @KelvinKellyB tweeted: “I think you have it on other parts of your body… Even your lips. The fine wey you fine get him own class Rita.” @Gabyinfinity said: “You were on the queue for beauty ma’am!” @KelvinGabriella wrote: “You’re so beautiful, that the height isn’t even noticed.” @JOlojede stated: “But you still look cute though. You might not be as pretty if you’re taller than this. God doesn’t make mistake.”