On July 20, the flamboyant and controversial British Prime minister, Boris Johnson, bowed out of the House of Commons (parliament) after prime minister’s traditional question time. This followed personal and policy scandals over the past three years as prime minister and over the last decades of unconventional social life involving series of sexual alliances and fathering of a couple of children out of wedlock. Beginning from holding parties at his official residence at 10 Downing Street which also functions as office of the prime minister and ending at the appointment of a sex offender into parliamentary office and denying having knowledge of the man’s past even though he had been briefed.  This was after more than 40 allegations of sexual abuses and harassment of people including staffers of parliament by members of the Conservative Party, the prime minister’s party. He was also accused of regularly lying to parliament and even giving peerage to a Russian emigré, one Lebedev living in London whose family allegedly had ties with the Russian KGB, the spy organization of the old Soviet Union. This incident led to insinuations about being connected to the Russian secret service which is obviously an exaggeration. Boris Johnson has an interesting pedigree. His great grandfather Ali Kemal was born a Turk and a Muslim in Constantinople (Istanbul). His grandfather was Wilfred Johnson, Kemal Ali’s son who was born in England in 1909 and died in 1992. Boris Johnson’s grandfather was a writer and had citizenship of both France and Great Britain. Johnson’s father, Stanley Johnson born in 1940 of an Anglo-French parentage is a writer. Apart from being a writer, Stanley Johnson was a politician and journalist who is very much alive and was working in New York when Boris Johnson was born 58 years ago. This makes Boris Johnson an American like his hero Winston Churchill, Britain’s war-time hero whose mother, Jennie Jerome was an American citizen. To use a phrase of Wole Soyinka in the 1960s, Boris Johnson is a “miserable mimic” of Winston Churchill. At birth he was named Alexander Boris de Pfeffel Johnson apparently because of his father’s fascination for French culture. Boris Johnson was well prepared for life. He was sent to Eton for his secondary education by his parents and later went to Balliol College Oxford and graduated with a degree in classics.  In Oxford, he was known for riotous living but this did not prevent him being elected president of the Oxford union in 1986.  After graduation, he became the Brussels correspondent of and later political columnist for The Daily Telegraph and was editor of the Spectator magazine from 1999 to 2005.   The election in Osun: Case of poisoned chalice     Failure of democracy in Nigeria and the United States     Strategy for peace in Europe   Before becoming the leader of the Conservative Party in 2019, he previously served as  Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs from 2016 to 2018 in the Theresa May’s administration and had previously served as mayor of London from 2008 to 2016.  He was a colorful and charismatic mayor of London and made a rather dour position attractive and noticeable by his jokes and grassroots and streets wise people oriented administrative style. He had been a member of parliament for Uxbridge South Ruislip  since 2015 and previously for Henley from 2001 to 2008 .  He became leader of the Conservative party when without apparent conviction but with opportunistic calculations led a rebellion against Theresa May, the second female prime minister of Great Britain after Margaret Thatcher. Theresa May was then negotiating with the European Union for control of Immigration among other things to give Britain more control of its laws and finances in a Europe  that was tending towards federalist union under the leadership of France and Germany. The rising popularity of English nationalism led by Nigel Paul  Farage  who formed  the UK Independent Party drove the Conservative Party to right wing nationalist positions which made Prime Minister May’s efforts at reaching a modus vivendi with Europe more and more arduous. It was this situation that Boris Johnson exploited to lead a revolt against Theresa May who called a snap parliamentary election but came out worse than she was before the election. Johnson deceived the British public that he would withdraw Britain from Europe and save the British exchequer billions of pounds which he would pump into the National Health Service (NHS). Johnson on edging out Theresa May out of 10 Downing Street called a snap election with the promise of Brexit and won a landslide majority with over 40 seats in parliament – something that has not happened since Margaret Thatcher’s time. Having won, he has found the problem of totally extricating Britain from Europe more difficult than he bargained for especially over the border problem of Northern Ireland with the European Union member state of the Republic of Ireland. After three years of his prime ministership, the northern Irish  border with the Republic of Ireland has remained problematic over how a province of Britain can maintain a seamless border with the EU in Ireland. Boris Johnson has also been unlucky to have to deal with the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and the Russian war in Ukraine. He was first dismissive of the Covid-19 virus which led to the death of thousands of mostly elderly people before