Actor Uche Maduagwu for the second time has openly admitted to being gay. Barely a year ago, Maduagwu after stating he was a member of the LGBTQ community made a u-turn, denying his sexuality. Giving reasons for his change of mind, the controversial actor said he lost his movie roles, several endorsement deals and a girlfriend. However, in a new development, Maduagwu identified himself as a proud gay while showing solidarity with the LGBTQ community in Nigeria following the Sharia court ruling last week which sentenced Gay men to be stoned. The Instagram actor publicly condemned the Sharia court ruling, adding the government cannot tell him and members of his sexuality community how to live their lives. Maduagwu prayed the US government under President Joe Biden sanctions President Muhammadu Buhari for ignoring the fundamental rights of the LGBTQ community in Nigeria The actor also wondered why no cleric has spoken against the Sharia court ruling, which he termed erroneous and undemocratic.   I look like old retired ‘prostitute’ on Android…     I’m working on collabo with Burna Boy, Tu Face, Wizkid…     UK varsity confers honorary degree on Tiwa Savage   Maduagwu in a post on his Instagram account wrote: “Dear President Joe Biden, we need the US government to sanction President Buhari and his top advisers over ignoring the Fundamental Human rights of #LGBT in Nigeria, just a few days ago, a Sharia court sentence #Gay men to be STONED, is this our country a #Democracy or #Banana Republic? “Yet, our President and his CORRUPT ministers kept quiet, he keeps travelling to different developed countries like KUNU Mosquito, yet he never borrows wisdom from these countries RESPECT for Human Right. “The same set of people who gives judgement for Gay people to be STONED is the same that takes laws into their hands all in the name of Christian blasphemy on Mohammed, when will this madness stop?” Professing his sexuality, he added: “I was born GAY. I am still GAY. I will forever remain GAY. “The government cannot tell us how to live out lives in Nigeria. “What is happening in the North, especially Bauchi is so unfair and wrong. “No single pastor speaks out against Sharia erroneous, undemocratic laws, why?”