Voters in Ede North Local Government Area, Osun State, on Saturday, trooped out in their large numbers for the governorship poll. The voters in the all the polling units within the local government were out as early as 6:30a.m to participate in the exercise under tight security. Many voters were seen trekking while some others were taking motorcycles to their various polling unit. In some polling units, officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agents were on ground as early as 6:30am. In some other places, voters were seen standing waiting for arrival of INEC ad hoc staff. Security personnel continued to patrol strategic locations in their vehicles to ensure normalcy , while some were already stationed at their places of assignments . The Nigerian Police Force (NPF) and Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC ) were being dropped in their vehicles in some few polling units at about 6:45 a.m. Also, National Youth Service Corps ( NYSC) members were sighted in buses conveying them to various polling units and wards across ede town . Some places visited by correspondent include Ward 2 , unit 9 , at Abogunde area where the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Ademola Adeleke voted. At ward 2 , unit 9 , voters are already waiting together with some security personnel and few NYSC members arranging the venue for the election. Also, at ward 1 , unit 4 , at Atapara area , voters were seen in their few numbers already waiting for INEC officials to include Ojunsun area Ward 2 , unit 7 where some NYSC members were seen arranging their tables and taking positions . At Agbala area, Ward 8, unit 3, some security personnel were already on ground to include the NSCDC and the Nigerian Police Force, with few voters waiting for the INEC officials . Also, at Ward 2 , unit 10 , Voters were seen waiting together with the Nigerian Police Force and NSCDC arriving for the election . At Ward 002, Isibo-Buari-Isola, a young and well-dressed police officer, who said he was drafted from Kano and has been in Osun for the election duty since Wednesday, told The Nation that his team arrived at the polling unit before 7am.   Tinubu will fix Nigeria in eight years – Danyaro     ‘Vote-buying not a threat to Oyetola victory’     Olaniyan’s counsel fumes over impeachment panel   Further reports have that INEC officials arrived exactly 7: 20 a.m. at Ward 2 , unit 9 , where Sen. Ademola Adeleke is to cast his vote, together with NYSC members and other security personnel for the election The Nation reports that the 2022 Osun governorship election according to INEC , is taking place acrossed 30 local government areas , with 3, 763 polling units and 332 registration areas. Other INEC officials were also seen moving in their hilux vehicles to some polling units with sensitive materials to be used for the election . The Nation gathered that Ede North has a total registered voter of 71,750 for the governorship election, with 151 polling units and 11 registration areas . Ede South has 54, 880 registration voters, with 89 polling units and 10 registration areas . A voter Akinwumi Olaniyi said the election would be peaceful looking at the preparedness of INEC and also the heavy presence of security personnel. According to him, many people now wants to ensure they get accredited and vote knowing the efficacy of having a good servant leader . Also, Miss Abigail Ayoade , who spoke with on her way to the polling unit , said she believes the whole processes would be the best in the state without any ” Inconclusive “, unlike what happened in 2018 governorship election. Ayoade appealed to electorate not to take laws into their hands , but rather ensure they obeyed all the regulation set aside by the authorities . Another voter, a 70 year old woman, Rufai Bili Asani, who voted around 8:30am, expressed delight over the process. She said: “I came out to vote today for my choice candidate. I can confirm that the process was seamless and didn’t take time at all. ” As you might notice that I cast my vote without any issue. And we are hopeful and praying that God will give us peace and good governance in Osun.’ The 15 political party candidate’s participating in Osun governorship election are ; Gov. Adegboyega Oyetola, All Progressive Congress ( APC) ; Sen. Ademola Adeleke, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Mr Oyegoke Omigbodun , Social Democratic Party (SDP) . Other key candidates are Dr Akin Ogunbiyi , Accord (A); Mr Yusuf Lasun Labour Party (LP ) , Munirudeen Atanda , Action Democratic Party ( ADP) and Busuyi Ayowole, Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) , among other key candidates.