India has done a great job of turning its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) into improved well-being for its people, and one area where Nigeria can learn from India is exporting services to the rest of the world. PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC Nigeria) made this known in its report, entitled: Nigeria-India: Learnings from two large democracies,’ released on Monday. The report said the geo-political, economic and cultural similarities that exist between Nigeria and India present a great opportunity for each of them to benefit from the other’s strengths. The report pointed out, for instance, that Nigeria’s core strengths include its position as an emerging market strategically located for foreign investments, its diversity and its self-organising nature. Similarly, India is one of the fastest growing economies in the world and has been performing well in areas such as technology, export of services, enabling infrastructure, etc.   Fed Govt: petrol scarcity will linger until full…     Kuje prison: 64 Boko Haram suspects escape after attack     Kuje: Day terrorists wreaked havoc   It also said Nigeria and India share experiences that come with large population sizes in developing countries. For instance, India, according to the report, is the world’s largest democracy by population, while Nigeria is set to become the world’s second largest democracy in 2050, as the country’s population overtakes that of the United States. “By 2050 and 2100, India’s population is projected to stand at 1.67 billion and 1.09 billion, while Nigeria’s population is projected to hit 400 million and 791 million respectively,” PwC said. Giving further analysis of the population of both countries, PwC said while at different stages of demographic transition, Nigeria and India have a high percentage (over 50%) of the working age population (15-59 years). It added that of the total population, youth (15-24 years) account for approximately 18 per cent of the Indian population and 19 per cent of the Nigerian population. “This young, innovative, and vibrant labour force demands that both economies develop opportunities for the youth. With more and more people entering the labour force, employment generation for economic development becomes critical, PwC said in the report. Commenting on the report, Partner & Chief Economist, PwC Nigeria, Andrew S. Nevin, said India is a complex society, with many ethnicities and religions and significant regional social and economic development differences. While also noting that India faces many of the similar challenges that Nigeria faces, He said “India has done a great job of turning GDP into improved well-being for its people. And one area where Nigeria can learn from India is exporting services to the rest of the world.”