Ariston Group has restated its commitment to providing sustainable comfort for its customers by making available quality and energy-efficient products and solutions. Its Director, Central Africa, Richmond Aguiar, spoke during the Country Manager Forum with reporters in Lagos. He said the company has invested in research and development (R&D) leading to advanced products with unique offerings. “We want everyone to feel comfortable and at ease in their daily life. To make this possible, we help families, and our professional partners find the best solution straightforwardly,” he said. He further explained that the company boasts of requisite expertise that can deliver after-sale services in Nigeria of the highest professional standards, guaranteeing customers built-to-last high-performance solutions. Aguiar said the company’s range of products is designed to improve people’s serenity and quality of life and help them make more responsible choices.   Solar: Steven energy to bridge capacity gap     Deepening women participation in oil and gas     Sahara Power promotes sustainability with gree’n’lectric   “At Ariston, we strive to anticipate proactively emerging customer needs by making state-of-the-art heating and hot water solutions accessible to all,” he said. Head of Marketing at Ariston Group, Mr Habeeb Somoye,  “We firmly believe in the dependability of our products and solutions. This comes from our commitment to use the best components and materials available and to certify the quality of each product through checks and tests completed before, during and after production. “Our products are tested and have gone through a check to the extent that it requires no technical interventions in their first five years of service. We also get extra quality assurance certifications issued by reliable third-party organisations across the entire supply chain sector, ” Somoye said. He described the brand as one that has continued to live true to its heritage as comfort and care remain the driving force that has kept it entrenched in customers’ minds in all the markets where it operates. “Thanks to our Italian origin and heritage, bringing comfort and caring for the home are in our DNA. This is reflected in our ability to face all challenges with optimism, confidence, and genuine warmth and elegance,” he said.