Edo Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akoria Obehi, has stated eight persons had so far tested positive for monkeypox in the State. She urged Edo residents to observe safety measures to reduce the spread of the virus and other infectious diseases. Obehi, who spoke in Benin, stated that the ministry had ramped up surveillance and other activities to curb the spread of the infectious disease. She noted that all the persons who were diagnosed with the disease had recovered. According to the Commissioner: “Amid the rise in the number of confirmed cases of monkeypox in Edo, it has become imperative to warn on the health risks that the virus poses and reiterate the need for residents to be cautious and adhere to safety measures.”   I pity those still in captivity – Freed train hostage     BBNaija S7: Eloswag is first HoH     I’ve everything it takes to win 2023 presidency –…   Obehi also noted that symptoms of monkeypox included fever, headache, weakness of the body, sore throat, and enlargement of glands under the jaw and in the neck. She stated that it could also come with the appearance of rash on the face, palms, soles of the feet, genitals, and other parts of the body, which could appear solid or fluid-filled at the onset and could manifest within two to three weeks following infection, depending on the health status of the individual. The health commissioner said: “The virus can be transmitted from infected animals and rodents, such as rats, mice, squirrels, and even monkeys; through contact with infected blood, body fluids, spots, blisters or scabs and sharing of objects. “Avoid contact with dead or live wild animals, such as small mammals, including rodents (rats, squirrels) and non-human primates (monkeys, apes). “Thoroughly cook all foods containing animal meat before eating; avoid unprotected contact with infected animals, humans, their beddings, and other linen; wash hands regularly, and use sanitiser, when water is not available.” She noted that Edo’s disease surveillance team had been deployed to control the outbreak in the State.