An Italian technology company, Ariston Group, yesterday said it is complementing Federal Government’s efforts in the area of job creation through its training to its systematic transfer of technology by training local professionals that offer after sales services to its customers. Its Director, Central Africa, Richmond Aguiar, who spoke during the Country Manager Forum with reporters yesterday in Lagos, said the company has consistently invested in research and development (R&D) leading to multiple advanced products with unique offerings. He restated the company’s commitment to providing sustainable comfort for customers by making available quality and energy-efficient products and solutions According to him, each product features heat pumps for heating and solar efficient hybrid systems tailored to customer needs. He said the Ariston range of products comes in water heating or heating form, including hybrid, powerflex and demand-response. He explained that the products were designed to make users enjoy complete comfort and ease in their daily life.   “We want everyone to feel comfortable and at ease in their daily life. To make this possible, we help families, and our professional partners find the best solution straightforwardly,” he said. He said the company has created plumbing community, stressing that the company has the requisite expertise that can deliver after-sale services in Nigeria of the highest professional standards, guaranteeing customers built-to-last high-performance solutions.   Reps urge NNPC on more depots     Duty payment on carbonated drinks takes off     Africa No Filter launches Tony Elumelu Storytellers Fund   Aguiar said the company’s range of products is designed to improve people’s serenity and quality of life and help them make more responsible choices. “At Ariston, we strive to anticipate proactively emerging customer needs by making state-of-the-art heating and hot water solutions accessible to all,” he said. Head of Marketing at Ariston Group, Mr Habeeb Somoye, said the company takes pride in its ability to deliver quality and reliable products and solutions. “We firmly believe in the dependability of our products and solutions. This comes from our commitment to use the best components and materials available and to certify the quality of each product through checks and tests completed before, during and after production. “Our products are tested and have gone through a check to the extent that it requires no technical interventions in their first five years of service. We also get extra quality assurance certifications issued by reliable third-party organisations across the entire supply chain sector, ” Somoye said. He described the brand as one that has continued to live true to its heritage as comfort and care remain the driving force that has kept it entrenched in customers’ minds in all the markets where it operates. “Thanks to our Italian origin and heritage, bringing comfort and caring for the home are in our DNA. This is reflected in our ability to face all challenges with optimism, confidence, and genuine warmth and elegance,” he said.