The National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos, was a beehive of activities yesterday as thousands of young Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) worshipers converged to commemorate the 2022 “Youth Aflame Conference.” Tagged: “Mountain Climbers”, the event drew participants from far and near as the organisers assembled an array of speakers to address various topics that would keep the young mind on the goals of building a successful future, working for God and enriching humanity with leaders and great talents. Among the speakers were Pastors Leke Adeboye, Poju Oyemade, Tunji Adeboyejo, Bisi Akande, Jerry Eze, Kola Oyeneyin, Tomie Arayomi, and Adegbola Shaman. While declaring the conference open, the host clergyman, Pastor Daniel Olawande, explained that the conference was put together for young professionals who would actualise the great vision of the transformative power of breaking barriers and planting success wherever they serve.   Economy quakes under biting inflation     Business, consumers groan as inflation wreaks havoc     How CBN is fighting inflation   “The cycle of revival is not complete until it brings about societal transformation. The time has come to raise young apostles in the market place; the time has come to raise kingdom gatekeepers who will represent God   with high moral rectitude, high effectiveness, with character, excellence God’s fire in the market place. Hence the need for the Youth Aflame Conference. “Youth Aflame Conference YAC is that training, building and equipping platform for this emerging generation of global kingdom ambassadors,” he said. One of the speakers, Pastor Tunji Adeboyejo, who is also the chairman of the Youth Evangelism Team of the RCCG, spoke on the “DNA of Mountain Climbers.” According to him, people who want to get to the peak of the mountain (success) must have vision, drive, resilience, focus, and courage. He noted that no man could climb above his level without courage. Another speaker who is also the Pastor in charge of Youth Province 1, Lagos, Pastor Bisi Akande, spoke on ‘The Secrets of Mountain Climbers.”