All the regions in Nigeria have notable festivals attached to them. The festivals attract indigenes at home and in the diaspora, including foreigners who are eager to learn about numerous Nigerian cultures. Ojude Oba festival is an ancient festival celebrated by the Yoruba people of Ijebu-Ode, a town in Ogun State. This annual festival usually takes place the third day after Eid al-Kabir, to pay homage and show respect to the Royal Majesty, the Awujale of Ijebuland. It is one of the most spiritual and glamorous festivals celebrated in Ijebuland and generally in Ogun State as a whole. The festival entails a rich display of horses mounted by colorfully dressed cavaliers, who pay traditional homage to the Emir to commemorate Sallah. It is held in some states in Northern Nigeria such as Katsina, Kaduna and Kano States. This is an indigenous festival staged to mark the transition of an important indigene to the great beyond in Lagos state. This is an annual worship of the Osun goddess of fertility in the second week of August. It takes place in Osogbo, Osun State. It is a bare hand fishing competition that is held in Argungu, Kebbi state.   Five movie stars who performed 2022 Hajj     Low capital businesses for startups     Bolarinde celebrates Nigerian cultures   It also includes water sports and wrestling contests. This is a new yam festival celebrated by the Igede people of Benue State at Oju and Obi. It is held every first week of September. It is a colourful display of masquerades to usher in the new yam in Enugu state. It is held every November. The festival is a mandatory marital rite for virgins in Ogori, Kogi state. It is a sort of initiation into adulthood. This is a festival celebrated annually and it takes place every month of October in Ile Ife. The festival is performed by worshipping and offerings at Oke Mogun in Ile ife. The festival lasts for four days. This is an annual celebration in Owo, Ondo State. It is held every September to usher in the new yam with pump and pageantry.