Once again the endemic struggle for federal control among Nigeria’s power blocs has been reduced and simplified to a straightforward duel unto death between two ancient enemy camps undergoing simultaneous internal transformation: the hegemonic master ensemble that has held the north in political thraldom since Othman Dan Fodio and the emergent pan-Yoruba power bloc that has coalesced around the former Lagos State governor, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The third leg of the old power triumvirate, the heaving and forever seething Igbo power consortium, has been left once again holding the short end of the stick after a very nasty and brutal power game in Abuja whose outcome has left the best pundits in the land completely wrong footed. The Igbo leadership nurse a smouldering resentment against their Fulani tormentors and hold the dominant Yoruba leadership in bitter contempt for what they consider their insensitivity and political perfidy. But truth be told, hegemonic aspirations must be made of sterner stuff. It would appear as if there is something constitutionally defective or inherently myopic about the core Igbo leadership and their inability to appreciate the power configuration in contemporary Nigeria in all its overarching complexities and the inherited prejudices that drive the alliance-making. If things had been left to the desultory and derisory antics of the Igbo candidates at the last APC convention, the keen and punitively proactive northern power Mafiosi would have made a mince-meat of all. You cannot rewrite the rules of the game when it is already underway. Having been outspent, outflanked and outsourced by their opponents, the leading Igbo candidates could only resort to public jeremiads about how unfair it had all been. Whoever told them that politics is fair? This must however lead us to the other side of the coin. What type of a country are we building and what type of democracy is this in which we are investing these demonic energies? Democracy is not all about the simple arithmetic of majority rule or ramming unexamined policies down the throat of vital segments of the society however unpleasant and unpalatable their politics may appear to us. Democracy is about inclusive governance and the capacity to bring on board diverse views and visions of the nation particularly in a multi-ethnic and multi-religious country. Any democratic revalidation of the nation which is not embossed by national restitution is an exercise in futility. This is not some idle pontificating. Nigeria has never been farther away from an elite consensus about how to lift the nation from the morass of economic backwardness and political underdevelopment than at this moment. This is what makes the whole country to appear like a victim of a coordinated siege on all fronts. Anarchy threatens from many directions. Harmonious relationship among the nation’s constituent units has broken down to the extent that there are now well-organized groups demanding for the immediate dissolution of the nation or the urgent reconfiguration of its structure at the very least. After the euphoria accompanying the primaries, the old demons haunting the nation are back and self-determination groups have resumed their clamorous beat. It has been said that those who refuse to learn from history are condemned to repeat it. It will be recalled that the original quarrel which sent the nation on a tailspin was not between the Igbo hegemonic group and the northern power brokers. At that point in time, the two were locked in an opportunistic alliance whose sole purpose was to keep Awolowo out of circulation and the Yoruba dominant group out of the loop of booty-sharing. But mid-ranking officers of Igbo extraction had other ideas. They brought their artillery and military grade weapon to bear on the contention. Two bloody coups, a civil war and protracted military rule ensued. The same scenario repeated itself in 1993 with a Yoruba dominated civil alliance spear-headed by MKO Abiola, an erstwhile military crony and enabler, squaring up to the military who were acting as proxy to the feudal oligarchy. Only one Igbo state voted for Abiola. The argument then was that if the military could not cede power to other members of the ruling class on the ground of ethnicity, then ordinary members of the society should simply forget it. In the event, the Egba mogul won the election but was prevented by the military from acceding to power. In the ensuing stalemate, Abiola lost his life and the country went through a low voltage political insurgency for five years. Having exhausted its political and historical possibilities, the military was forced to retreat to the barracks and the nation ended up with the Obasanjo Settlement of 1999. Almost thirty years to the Abiola debacle the nation has arrived at another conjuncture in which the transfer and distribution of power has become another major source of contention. It is essentially the same historic plot with a major reconfiguration and reconstitution of actors. The northern power bloc is facing a stiff challenge to its suzerainty by another Yoruba dominated coalition spearheaded by a Yoruba power master with intimidating range and reach; a man of immense mystery thrust on the stage to achieve what Awolowo and Abiola combined could not. If we discount Obasanjo’s ascendancy as a military coup by retired generals using extant civil structures, this one is going to cause a major rumbling of the tectonic plates. It should be recalled that the two dominant power groups in the country are in some sorts of alliance dating back to the historic triumph of General Mohammadu Buhari in 2015. But it has been a tense and fraught alliance, close to collapse on several occasions with irreconcilable and countervailing notions of the nation getting in the way and with some northern hegemonic hawks bent on scuttling the coalition with provocative pronouncements and hostile body language. Going to the party’s convention in Abuja last month, it was only residual common sense and goodwill that sustained the historic coming together. But even then the supremacist hardliners almost overturned the applecart except for a divine stroke of inspiration based on agile calculation on the part of some governors.   Godwin Kienka: Why Nigerian sports is ‘going round in…     Onyekuru: I could stay in Galatasaray forever     Adesola Adeyemi: My experience on international runway has…   At a point the ethnic supremacists went completely for broke brandishing a consensus candidate anointed from the villa which would have put an end to the Fourth Republic. In the end, they threw the contest open to all comers in flagrant desecration of the founding canon of the party. It was only the historic intervention of the governors that saved the day. That breach of feudal protocol must reverberate in the months ahead and if it stands, it may cause a major realignment in Nigeria’s post-military politics. This convergence of contrasting visions leading to cross pollination of paradigms of governance may well be the historic tonic that Nigerian politics has been waiting for it and it could not have happened without the original merger despite its flaws and failings. All is now quiet on the northern mafia front. It will however be foolish and politically inexpedient to expect the hawks to sheath their swords and go home just like that. This vision “thing” can be a stubborn and overpowering demon indeed. Those who have been born with a vision of dominating and lording it over others in the society are not expected to give up just like that. Despite the happy faces they have been forced to wear over their historic comeuppance, they are far from finished. It is this chiaroscuro of multi-segmented forces and the play of unfamiliar signifiers across old binary divisions that will make the 2023 presidential elections the most exciting and exacting in the history of the country. But we can briefly speculate without intending to sound like an infallible oracle by any means. In the case of Peter Obi who has decamped from the PDP rather than stay to thwart the hegemonic domination of the two state parties, the “obidient” folks are likely to succumb to their own logic of ethnic obeisance in a multi-ethnic society, the failure to build inter-generational linkages and the sheer technological hubris and overreach that will eventually compromise the mission-speak. They will enjoy their fifteen minutes of fame before antagonistic forces of state democracy move in to overwhelm them and prevent the republic from going under. That leaves the stage once again, and barring any unforeseen accident, to the domination of the two state parties and the perpetuation of their hegemonic hold on the nation. But unlike the Second Republic when Chief Awolowo and his Unity Party of Nigeria solitarily squared it up with the phalanx of feudal domination, the forces this time around are more evenly matched. It is useful to note that in the Second Republic, the choice of a diffident and dissembling Shehu Shagari was rammed through the throat of the ruling party against the claims of better fancied and better credentialed contenders by a feudal oligarchy acting in concert with military enforcers and civilian accomplices alike. But this time around there was no resolute military dictator or sterling civilian strategists at play. The times and forces are changing indeed. That leaves the two big elephants in the room. But there are ironies and contradictions here too. There is a basic similarity between the two men.  Both are self-made, self-reliant and self-propelling individuals who have clawed their way to the top of the society through sheer grit and an iron will. There have been question marks on the sources of their wealth, but that notwithstanding, they ought to be respected and applauded for how far they have come. Atiku Abubakar is not the official candidate of the northern feudal power brokers just as Bola Tinubu is not the official candidate of the old Yoruba establishment. But in both cases, both men have been able to build a transnational support base which transcends narrow ethnic origins. Among the Fulani top most caste, Atiku and his genealogy are considered not pukka enough. As far as the aristocratic Fulani Brahmin are concerned, Atiku belongs more to the Mumuye brand which is regarded as an inferior sub-ethnic category. The fact that he lost his father to a flooded river while still relatively young has not helped his social ranking. For there to be an upper class, there must be a lower caste. Despite his political tutelage under the widely influential and charismatic Shehu Yar’Adua, there seems to be an abiding froideur between Atiku and a wide segment of retired military brass hats of northern origins who believe that as Vice President to Obasanjo, Atiku resorted to baiting his military superiors and was fond of frequently punching above his weight. They have not forgiven him. It also bears restating that neither man has been given enough credit for his sterling and heroic contribution to the sustenance and maintenance of civil rule in post-military Nigeria: Atiku for slugging it out toe to toe with a spiteful civilian autocrat who was bent on pounding him to submission. Tinubu in his own case will be remembered for his epic constitutional struggle with the same dictator and later his heroic campaign to retrieve the mandate lost to sheer electoral banditry. It must also be said that the former Lagos helmsman incurred the wrath of the old dominant Yoruba establishment for outfoxing them and for not joining them in the rush to political annihilation as designed by the old fox. The wheel of fortune has now come full circle for both men, old collaborators and old antagonists, who have found themselves in the ring in an epic slugfest from which one of them must emerge the winner. There is no honourable draw in political prize fighting. One man must emerge winner with his hand raised. In all this, there is nothing to suggest in the antecedents of both men and on current form that they have the blueprint and the visionary capacity to set a fresh template and a new beginning for a much abused nation. Human actors are conditioned and determined by the structural contingencies that throw them up. No fiery radical or flame-throwing revolutionary could have emerged from the process that has thrown up either man. The truth is that in all human processes, closure is as important as a new beginning. There can be no fresh beginning without a formal closure to old misadventures. It may be the historic duty of one of these men to provide a needed and necessary closure to a miserable and better forgotten chapter in the history of the nation. Given the circumstances of institutional chaos and widespread decommissioning of vital organs of the state in which this transition is taking place, it would be foolish and unreasonable to expect a miracle. Nigeria has arrived at one of those important conjunctures where any possible electoral outcome is already suborned by process and procedure. You cannot plant cassava and expect to harvest yam. If we manage to avoid state implosion, that would be quite a feat.