Who are responsible for keeping maximum security terrorists in an under-equipped, undermanned ‘less than medium’ security facility-terrorist captured at huge cost to Nigeria and inspirational military bravery with so lives lost? All gains cancelled in one night – so painful to watching war widows, fatherless children and bitterly conflicted colleagues of the fallen heroes, sacrificing blood and lives to capture the 67 terrorists and 443 others now free. Will security improve or are we just ‘shocked and disappointed’ again after seven years in power? Does the released prisons’ budget since 2015 tally with the visible expenditure? Why were they not confronted on exiting the prison? So, 103 days after, seven Kaduna Abuja train kidnapped citizens are freed, leaving 43 still in dangerous humiliating captivity. While we rejoice with the freed and sympathise for the delay, we wonder what plans will release the 43? Sadly, Nigeria’s kidnappers demand huge ransoms beyond victims and families and private and public sector reach. Personal and relations’ lifelong livelihood home investments and assets are liquidated. Do not forget the Fellow Nigerians murdered by their kidnappers, merely for ‘entering a train’.   Nowadays, when you ask most people to do anything, even when they are paid, they do it resentfully, grudgingly with a huge frown or otherwise show they should not be doing the task or/and are unwilling to complete the task. The result is half-completed tasks nationwide starting in the room, home, classroom, lecture hall, office, ward, clinic, hospital and contracts. So, few tasks are completed, leaving shoddy-jobs. Your artisans will mess up their areas, the cleaner will only clean easily inspected areas. Nobody wants to clean up their own mess. In fact, it seems they plan to create work for each other.  Professionals come late to work, take long breaks and are hostile to clients and customers thinking ‘work is punishment’. Copy out the slogan ‘Work is not punishment’ and paste it around your offices and on WhatsApp. Sadly, the drive towards entrepreneurial gain has meant that people are reluctant to do work-for-no-pay and the loss of the golden age of ‘Volunteerism’ now considered to be a foolish, ‘Mumu venture’. School punishment with manual labour like extra grass cutting and fetching extra water and cleaning the toilet have unfortunately ingrained the idea that ‘work is punishment’. The idea of ‘work is a honourable responsibility’ is rarely visible in work-is-not-my-father’s -business Ministries, Agencies and Departments (MDAs) including Nigeria’s schools – remember Chibok classrooms and filthy dormitories-  prisons – all highlight our monumental security work failure. Such places are often left dirty, to be cleaned and maintained only when an ‘0ga-at-the-top’ is visiting.   Modupe Omisore@90; Waterways; water; politics     Under-age voter registration, prosecutable child rights…     Ekiti; Honest politicians; Sachet mountains; PVC holiday?      Even when cleaned, most offices remain eyesores in the corners and especially on the walls where the staff members heads and bodies and the chair backs have rubbed dirty stains and lines into the painted walls from years of sleeping-on-duty hair oil stains and plastic chair/concrete wall interface  damage. By now every office manager should know that chairs should be moved at least six inches off the wall to prevent such damage. This can be done with a flat board wedged behind the chair legs. This would reduce the need to paint offices more regularly. If not, we will continue to face eyesores like disgusting dirty offices, largely because supervisory staff and workers see ‘work as punishment’ when ‘work is not punishment’ but ‘work is an honourable responsibility’. Workers do face problems. Apart from low morale from poor salaries and the poor economy, there is often poor and inadequate modern equipment to make work easy. We see road sweepers, rubbish clearers, rubbish clearing vehicles. Most of the workers are underequipped and the equipment provided is often inadequate. Budgets for cleaning equipment, toilet paper, toilet cleaning etc. are diverted. Remember that we are all workers, not just the hands-on workers. What do we face in our work that is militating against maximum performance? What do you face? Is your office clean, are you and your workers working optimally? The real question is ‘Could you, your environment and office be better positioned if all workers around you imbibed the spirit and practice of the slogan ”Work is not punishment. It leads to perfection”? Of course, work must be ‘honest work’ and a worker must work hard enough to be ‘worthy of the pay and eventual pension’. Sadly, some governments and pension funds specialise in denying worked wages and pensions as-at-and-when-due, destroying the work ethic and morale and motivation of even the best workers and also their families and communities. A society without hard workers as rewarded role models faces destruction. Roundabouts and ‘T’ junctions and crossroads have become the nightmare focus when it rains and late after office hours when the police and FRSC have ‘hands-off’ their joint responsibility to maintain legal road movement. Sadly, the common courtesy of ‘Giving Way To Traffic Already On The Roundabout On Your Left’ which used to be a badge of traffic efficiency, resides in the dustbin of ‘Traffic Courtesy’. Today we face the wicked viciousness with which public and private drivers block roundabouts and junctions. The common sense ’If you don’t go, I can’t go’ is abandoned and replaced with ‘If I don’t go, you won’t go’. This ‘Roundabout Revolt’ by Nigerian drivers is anger-driven and an irresponsible moral character flaw manifesting as an impatience that makes everyone suffer longer and is a cruel, miscalculated mistake. Nobody wins!