The release of two singles by popular twin singing sensation PSquare has elicited varying reactions from listeners and music lovers alike. The Okoye twin in the wee hours of Friday, July 22 commemorated their reunion after five years of performing as solo artistes with “Jaiye” and “Find Somebody.” ‘Jaiye’, which was accompanied with a music video directed by TG Omori with the single, “Find Somebody” was officially released across all digital platforms. The duo in January informed fans to anticipate a new song\album seeing the emotions and craving of their fans after their reconciliation. They have now answered to their fans and lovers with their newest outputs together after several years garnering diverse opinions from listeners. Expressing the joy in seeing them work together as partners, many praised the superstars for their latest work, particularly for “Jaiye”, albeit some critiqued their work. @chukezzy tweeted: “Nobody be una mate for this music thing. Super jam!” Lord Lamba said: “Jam !!!thanks for this.” Sammy Walsh wrote: “Jaiye weekend.” @MrWalexzy stated: “You know, we suppose swear for your guys for starving us these years….. anyways……. yall came back like you never left………. Thanks guys. @Meeinu_ tweeted: “Lmaooooooo Watin be this intro? Y’all should catch up pls no carry us go back.”   Wife to donate kidney to Eedris Abdulkareem     ‘Peter Obi can only win on Twitter’     Mercy Aigbe laments exchange rate   marizuiyke said: “It’s Over. Psquare is back. Good music is back.” @Boitell wrote: “Whoa this Psquare #Jaiye is really awesome. Psquare always have their way of giving us something different and outstanding. I just can’t believe we’ve been starving of good music all this while… Welcome back @psquare.” swt_nation stated: “Damn nawaoooo… Old takers are back.” @EjikeIbeh2 tweeted: “Instead of Psquare to restart their reunion with a song titled “APOLOGY LETTER TO OUR FANS ” they instead decided to send us to nightclubs with this banger “jaiye”. Is this how they do things? PSquare never left, the song is a dopel banger.” Agbfilm said: “No doubt, the hardest jam on air right about now.” Menybah2 wrote: “There is something about naija music industry. You can’t shine twice. .to me they were sounding like an upcoming. They should try to catch up with what the news lads are singing. .psquare wants take us back to 2008.” @gtalker stated: “Jaiye is dope abeg.. Now, I have started reminiscing about all the old songs. I started playing “GAME OVER” in my head again. Una dey try. Correct party jams na be this.” @S_kangmi tweeted: “When a legendary artist doesn’t know it’s time to take a bow they Will now be singing like upcoming artist, it happened to Ice Prince, now it’s going to happen to Psquare, at this point y’all shud collab with upcoming to boost them! Cos WTF is this! Still with the leather Ts?” @phyrexofficial said: “Thought you guys are coming with a new sound..but it’s amapiano and it’s stale already….Nice to have you guys back anyway..make i use this one hold body small..” ekellybeatz stated: “Double Wahala.” donflexx wrote: “Food don done.”