An Edo State based pro-good governance group, under the aegis of Edo Grassroots Ambassadors has commended the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for putting competence above sentiments by picking former Borno State Governor, Kashim Shetima as his running mate The group maintained that Shetima, who is also the Senator representing Borno Central, has the exposure and intellectual depth to provide the needed support for the incoming President to move the country forward. It noted further that Shetima is a detribalized Nigerian who had always put Nigeria first and above ethno-religious sentiments. National Coordinator, of the group, James Okeati, noted that  Shettima, “by all standards reserve the incorrigibility status and hitherto credentials to function in that capacity”.   Why I selected Shettima as running mate, by Tinubu     Oyetola to Adeleke: your mandate was not stolen     Obi-dient tyrants?   It added that, “the considerations given for the choice of a running mate were dictated by the need to choose an individual capable of working with the presidential candidate to take Nigeria to greater heights, then Kashim Shetitima is the man who the cap fits”. According to the statement, “the finest ideal taught to children from generation to generation, across cultures and possibly since mankind developed the ability to preserve and transfer knowledge, is to work very hard to be successful and to use that success in the service of others. “All scriptural prints validated this with the golden rule mandate: love your neighbor as yourself. Africa built a philosophy around it; the philosophy of ‘Ubuntu’ which holds that the individual is only possible because of the collective, and the quality of any man’s life is defined by his relationship with others. “Accordingly, this quotation has enveloped the lifestyle of His Excellency Kashim Shettima and why we considered him a national asset to behold with two hands”. The group argued that the support for former Borno State Governor and Senator representing Central, is predicated on “his meritorious service delivery as a lecturer in University of Maiduguri, financial advisor in Zenith Bank , Bornu State Governor and Senator,  respectively”.