Majority Leader of the Lagos State House of Assembly Sanai Agunbiade has admonished his constituents on the imperatives of not getting their Permanent Voters’ Card (PVC) and refusing to vote. Agunbiade, who represents Ikorodu I in the Assembly, said ‘if you don’t get you PVC, you deny yourself the franchise to vote; you deny yourself the eligibility to vote; you deny yourself the opportunity to vote for candidates of your choice, who may not win if you don’t have your PVC and do not vote, and may win if you have your PVC and vote’. The lawmaker spoke during the eighth annual constituency stakeholders’ meeting in Ikorodu, themed ‘2023 General Elections: The Imperatives of Permanent Voters’ Card’. He urged the people to set aside their apathy and fears of votes not counting, saying those days were over. According to Agunbiade, the current electoral system works in a way that no one of voting age can be denied the franchise, except willingly. He, thus, urged the people to make the right decision. He said: “Apathy is caused by people not wanting to vote because they don’t see what they will benefit therein, but we are doing this to help them know that they have to vote, and let their vote count, that is how they can have a good government.   PDP members join APC in Oyo     NAFDAC shuts 10 water factories in Ondo     Ekiti residents urge governor-elect to prioritise security   “We have enlightened the people that they stand to gain a lot by voting, but a lot to lose in the overall larger picture if they don’t vote. If everybody votes, the best candidate will win and that will make things work well in the country. “This meeting gave us the opportunity to hear the people speak on their challenges and difficulties in getting their PVCs, and we will work on it. Representatives of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) were here and the have listened. I am sure the commission will act on all responses gotten. “The House of Assembly will also collate memoranda from each constituency and discuss on how to make things better as regard getting the PVC and voting. “But I will reiterate to my people to get their PVCs and vote. If you don’t get your PVC you deny yourself the franchise to vote; you deny yourself the opportunity to vote for candidates of your choice who may not win if you don’t vote…” “The All Progressives Congress (APC) primary is a clear example that votes count. It is also a good example to show that the country is gradually moving away from electoral violence; everybody wants to vote peacefully and leave peacefully. The security mechanisms in the country are now strengthened to contain violence . Ballot box snatching, which is always the cause of violence, is no more in vogue. So I urge the people to come out on election day and exercise their franchise. “I also urge them to remain committed to the government of Lagos State and the APC.”