Since emergence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, this outcome of the party primary election has dominated the media and public discuss with stakeholders and public projecting the chances of the candidates in the 2023 presidential election. This development has heightened public concerns about who emerged as his running mate. With Bola Ahmed Tinubu a prominent Muslim figure from Southwest, maintaining religious and ethnic balance appears as a major factor of interest and which has also remained a burning issue since Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has confirmed the fears of some political interests especially, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) when he announced the former Governor of Borno state, Senator Kashim Shettima as his running-mate. Despite the strong opposition to the Muslim-Muslim ticket, there are many opinion leaders and analysts both within and outside the party who believed that the decision is a child of necessity to boost the electoral success in the coming 2023 presidential elections and accepted that Senator Kashim Shettima would complement the strength of Tinubu. For a Bola Ahmed Tinubu, a well-known democrat with past records of good political relationship devoid of religious or ethnic bias, the question begging for answer is “why the Muslim-Muslim ticket”? It was against this background that one must emphasis that Bola Ahmed Tinubu will not take such sensitive decision without consultation or input from party stakeholders including notable members of the public. It is important to note that Tinubu arrived at the choice of Shettima from a list of 11 persons recommended for consideration for the choice of vice presidential candidate by the Planning and Strategy Committee of the Tinubu Support Group (TSG) headed by Mr. Babachir David Lawal, one of his strong ally and a prominent Christian politician from the north and who incidentally, have spoken vehemently against the Muslim-Muslim ticket after the announcement by Tinubu.   ‘Kerosene price rose by 12.09% in June’     Dockworkers shut terminals     CAF AWARDS 2022: Oshoala may pick record fifth African …   Beyond the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) fear about undermining the Christian community, the concern by notable Christian leader in the party like former SGN, Mr. Babachir David Lawal who believed that religious consideration remains much relevant in Nigerian politics should not be overlook. Mr. Babachir Lawan known for his strong and firm personality who puts faith before politics should be commended. So, it is reasonable to expect notable Christian political leader like Babachir to have a significant say in who becomes Vice president. However, to be honest, the emergence of Bola Ahmed Tinubu as APC presidential candidates could not have become a reality without unanimous agreement of northern political stakeholders who are predominantly Muslims to cede the president to the South. This type of sacrifice was jettisoned by opposition PDP which seems to threaten the country unity from suspicious political domineering by segment of the country. While it is important to recognize our religious differences and the need to assuage the fear to undermine any community, we must also focus as a nation on good relationship that foster unity, justice and togetherness, that is required to build a virile nation in line with our founding father’s mission. Winning the presidency for Bola Ahmed Tinubu in coming election should be the mission for All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders and stakeholders as efforts should be made to give every concerns interest a sense of belonging as the party moves to commence her campaign. Therefore, we wish to recommend that the party should consider a Christian with capacity as a director general to lead the campaign while discussion should start in earnest on how strategic positions will be shared that will reflect the religious consideration in order to douse the panic generated over the choice of running mate. Also, consultation with Christian Association of Nigeria, Christian leaders and leaders of thought should continue as well. This is a sacrifice expected from every concerned stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to ensure the opposition does not take advantage of unresolved difference for their political gain.