Following the inferno on the campus of Caritas University, Enugu last month, the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC) will partner with stakehold ers in the industry to purchase advanced seismic data to explore the type and quantity of hydrocarbon in Enugu State. The Chief Executive Officer of the Commission, Gbenga Komolafe, represented by the NUPRC Owerri Zonal Coordinator, Mr. Enorense  Amadasu, at a media parley organised by the institution, noted that investigation had shown that there was no evidence of any oil and gas production or pipeline in or around the site of the incident. NUPRC, he said, is suspicious that the area might bear some hydrocarbon deposit. “From this result, the commission is putting a mechanism in place to work with stakeholders to see how we can come to acquire further seismic data that will further enable us to know exactly what kind of hydrocarbon or volume of hydrocarbon is in this area (Enugu) of the country,” Amadasu said. According to him, the situation is still being investigated and there is a school of thought that says the gas that came from below the tin belt across the Enugu region that forms some deposits of shallow gas came to the surface which was eventually ignited. He emphasised that depending on the volume of gas, if that postulation is correct, it means with time, the gas would eventually go. The university, state and the Southeast region are looking forward to joining the league of oil producing states, should the Federal Government strike the black gold or gas in commercial quantity.   Sahara Power promotes sustainability with gree’n’lectric     EKEDC partners IRecharge on easy payment     The LPG burden   Recall that last month, from seeking to sink a borehole on its campus, fire was ignited from part of its land. The ensued fire did not only billow smoke into the atmosphere. The fire, which broke out and flared an undiscovered gas was unabating until it went off on its own. The situation was difficult to comprehend given that there were no relics of previous hydrocarbon discoveries or exploitations in the area. At the inferno site, Welltest Solutions Limited Director, Marcel Ahaneku, an engineer, assured of the safety of the site and environ for secured human activities. “We have used all industrial practice to secure this well. This place is passable. The environment is okay.  We can put some tension slab so that some vehicles can run on it. But we left it open for historic activities. But the place is free for activities and passable. For human activities around the university, the place is 100 per cent safe,” Ahaneku said. Caritas’ University Deputy Vice Chancellor, Prof. Michael Orji, the gas emitted from a borehole the university was digging for water. “The light went off miraculously. The light went off after we had all tried what we can. Another thing I want to emphasis is that throughout this incident we never had any fatality. When the fire went off the gas also went off,” he said, insisting that the varsity campus and environ is  safe. As the agony over the inferno is waning, it is also rekindling a very high hope that Enugu will share from the 13 per cent oil derivation should the oil find turn out positive and in commercial quantity too.