As Nigerian polo families and enthusiasts of the sport of kings warm up for an exciting northern tour after the Salah holidays, there are strong indications that the annual Zaria Polo and Keffi Polo tournaments may not hold this year. Though there is yet to be an official confirmation from the organisers of the two high-profile polo festivals. Keen followers of the game believed the Keffi Polo tournament may not hold due to the prevailing security concerns amid the 2023 general election. Further checks revealed that the proprietor of the Keffi Polo Ranch, Aliyu Wadada who is a key figure in Nasarawa State politics, has been extremely busy with campaigns that ultimately distract him from hosting the first of the ranch’s two charity tournaments this year. However, there are strong assurances that the second annual polo event that benefits the less privileged and orphanages in the state, would be hosted by Wadada at its traditional venue, the Keffi Polo Ranch around November. In a related development, the Zaria polo festival which is revered as one of the most exciting and the oldest polo tournaments in the country may equally not hold because of insecurities that have negatively impacted social and recreational activities in Kaduna recently. The prestigious fiesta that attracts teams from all the major polo centers across the country enjoys the royal backing of the Emir of Zauzau, His Royal Highness, Alhaji Ahmed Nuhu Bamalli, and the Emir of Katsina who is the Life Chairman of Nigeria Polo Federation, His Royal Highness Alhaji Abdulmumuni Kabir Usman.   Sports Festival to be expanded soon, says Dare     NPFL: Fierce battle against relegation     World Cup stadiums to be alcohol-free   For over a century now, major prizes on offer in Zaria include the high stake Royal Signal Cup which is the biggest cup, the medium-goal Emir of Zauzau Cup, The Governor’s Cup, the University Cup, and a handful of subsidiary prizes and awards. A visit to the Queens Road abode of Zaria further compounded the fears as there was no sign of preparation to host the event this year. While organisers of the Zaria Polo Tournament are still sitting undecided, reports within the Nigerian Polo Federation disclosed that the national tour would pick speed and steam as the calvary heads to the home of the foremost Yankari Games Reserves for the Bauchi annual polo festival scheduled after the Salah Holidays. The NationSport can authoritatively report that preparations are on high in Bauchi as the Calvary heads to the home of the foremost Yankari Games Reserves for the Bauchi annual polo festival scheduled for July at the serene Ningi Road polo ground in the state capital city. Other tournaments scheduled on the heels of the Bauchi event include Katsina International, Kano, Kaduna, Yola festival, and the Argungu Polo Festival which incorporate the famous Argungu fishing festival, cultural displays, and Argungu international Motor Rally. The northern tour bouquet which is the longest in the country has the highest number of tournaments that would ultimately climax in December with the Jos annual tournament that holds sway as the only winter Polo tournament.