Real estate developers are delving into mixed-use development to offer prospective clients an opportunity to work, live and recreate in the same place. One firm that has embraced mixed-use development is the PurpleGroup. Its new baby PurpleLekki, unveiled last week, is a luxury home in the upscale Lekki  and provides exquisite shopping for urbane Lagosians. Its Chief Executive Officer Mr. Olayide Agboola, noted the group was rebranding. According to him, in line with the rebranding,  the company’s facilities will have Purple as a prefix – Purple. The rebranding took effect this month with PurpleLekki and PurpleMaryland. He said the process would be implemented on the company’s physical and digital platforms. Agboola said in addition to modern private offices, department stores and boutiques, PurpleLekki would include a dedicated tech and data centre to support business tenants and enable collaboration among tech-empowered communities that require state-of-the-art working infrastructure – making Lekki an even more attractive place to live and work. The Nation learnt that the new construction is being financed by the Bank of Industry (BoI) and guarantees from Keystone Bank. The financing model forms part of an ongoing programme to build strategic alliances with domestic and international development partners to construct and deliver premium assets in prime locations. Located on Freedom Way, in Lekki Phase 1, Lagos, the development will feature a selection of new restaurants and concept bars, among other means of entertainment or relaxation, as part of the firm’s experiential offering, Purple Play. He said the 38,000 square metres PurpleLekki would encompass 157-unit mixed-use development that blends high-quality residential, retail, entertainment, hospitality and co-working spaces. He reaffirmed Purple’s mission and ambition to scale up investment and accelerate growth in the real estate sector. According to him, the firm is refocusing and extending its brand beyond real estate development.   Lagos to observe Tree Planting Thursday     National Water Resources Bill not for land grabbing, says…     Ogun agency rehabilitates roads   “We see the need to curate affordable lifestyle experiences by leveraging our expertise in real estate development. With MarylandMall, now PurpleMaryland and our ongoing development PurpleLekki, we are integrating retail, arts, entertainment, media and advertisement, family fun, food and drinks, e-commerce and financial services all in one through superior mixed-use centres and services. Our new focus is clear; working with our range and network of partners, we are creating affordable lifestyle experiences for our consumers across all income levels.” The CEO further said the group’s facilities and development were also rebranded and would be addressed with the Purple prefix (PurpleMaryland, PurpleLekki) while its new services would also bear a touch of the Purple Identity as well. He, however, added that to keep in touch with the group’s brand heritage, they had kept the same colours and logo symbol. Agboola stated that the new Purple identity signified growing strength, resilience and elegance, which he noted accurately represents the significant growth and successes it has recorded over the past few years. He said: “Ours is a story of sheer resilience, best practices and excellent service delivery to our partners and clients across the group. With this brand repositioning, we are re-committing to our core beliefs and ensuring unwavering commitment to our values, to our investors and to our esteemed partners. Our refreshed brand clearly communicates these values. We are also excited to unveil the brand identities for our new services and ongoing development projects. “The development also includes Citadines, a new serviced apartment offering for occupiers, where a commitment to customer service ordinarily experienced within a high-end hotel setting will be brought to the comfort of occupiers living at home,” he stated. He said the unique living experience would be delivered in partnership with The Ascott Limited, one of the world’s leading owners and operators of serviced residences. Also, Chief Executive Officer, Market Square, Ebele Enunwa, said: “The company has fast become a household name and the go-to grocery retail store for Nigerians in need of products they can trust at a valued price. “However, the Market Square story could not have been written without our partnership with Purple. “Signing this tenancy agreement to house our second outlet in Lagos signals the success of our first in PurpleMaryland and the next step of a progressive partnership that enables us to continue to meet Nigeria’s everyday needs.” Chairman, Ventures Park, Kola Aina, said: “We are a nation where entrepreneurship abounds, but talent cannot pursue its goals or achieve its objectives, compete nor win big without an environment that harnesses home-grown potential. “As such, we are delighted to leverage the PurpleLekki property development as we upgrade and scale our offering across the country and beyond to support the success of a new wave of startups, technopreneurs, and innovators that bring about the world of tomorrow today.” Also, Chairman, Genesis Cinemas, Nnaeto Orazulike, said the company remained committed to building world-class multi-use facilities in partnership with Purple.