Stakeholders in the integrated marketing communications as well as allied industry have advocated collaboration between regulatory agencies and industry players for effective and efficient regulations. This call was made at the Advertisers Association of Nigeria, (ADVAN) Industry Dialogue in Lagos. The Dialogue, whose keynote speaker was Dr. Jumoke Oduwole, Special Adviser to the President on Ease of Doing Business in Nigeria, spoke on the topic themed: “The role of government regulations in the ease of doing business in Nigeria”. Speaking on the need for collaboration, Mrs. Oduwole said  the collaboration with the private sector has continued to make it possible for them to know where the shoe pinches and creates a flow of ideas for pragmatic interventions.   Strengthen cybersecurity to remain safe, CBN urges OFIs     Marie Tecnimont supports Nigeria’s development     Arden & Newton, Ford Foundation inaugurate report   “It appeared that in addition to the known formal taxes, levies and charges, MSMEs bear multiple unquantified costs (both official and unofficial) associated with regulatory compliance from several government agencies, which, when taken cumulatively, significantly impact the business’ bottom line, hindering their ability to plough back such revenue into productive ventures,” she said. Thus, in 2019 the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) commissioned a pilot study around the formal and informal regulatory cost of compliance for MSMEs in Lagos and the FCT with a view to identifying and targeting successful reforms towards boosting the productivity of these businesses, thereby fostering the creation of jobs for millions of Nigerians and an increased GDP. The Special Adviser to the President on Ease of Doing Business in her said, “Empirical evidence from the pilot survey confirmed earlier anecdotal feedback by showing that 51% of MSMEs paid 12 unofficial fees for regulatory services. The survey equally revealed that actual compliance cost was higher than official stated costs, while process timelines overshot timelines published. It was also established that there is a huge communication gap between regulators and MSMEs.” Therefore, speaking directly to the integrated marketing communication industry, Mrs. Oduwole stated that bringing this all home to today’s dialogue, by our assessment, the advertising industry in Nigeria is regulated by a combination of federal laws, state and possibly local government laws, with other subsidiary legislations including regulations and guidelines. There are at least five regulatory agencies involved in regulating advertising