Tertiary institutions across the nation are dismayed at the myriad of challenges plaguing the education sector. However, with a change of baton imminent in the seat of power, they want a leader that would not only cater to the welfare of citizens, but revamp education. AMEENAT HAMZAT(IBADAN POLY), SAMUEL AGBELUSI (AAUA) and PEACE OLADIPO (FUOYE) report. The education sector is plagued with a plethora of problems. Public tertiary institutions are affected by various challenges such as  perennial underfunding, poor facilities and infrastructure, ineffective virtual learning system, incessant industrial action by various academic and non-academic unions, among others. Industrial actions by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and other unions have become a recurring decimal. Every year, unions must go on strike on the failure of the Federal Government to fulfill its side of agreement reached. The ASUU strike is over 100 days, yet there seems to be no end in sight; Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU) has declared a one-month strike over the failure of the Federal Government to implement agreements reached with the union, including the non-release of the N15 billion revitalisation fund for the colleges. However, with a new leader and government set to take the reins of power next year, students are clamouring for someone with the right qualities to not only turn the fortunes of the nation around, but put a stop to challenges rocking the education sector. Ibukun Shaba, a University of Lagos student, believes that good leadership would result in accountability in all sectors. She said: “I just want the next government to be a government that values education and also provides jobs.” She stated that the ASUU strike was a result of lack of government commitment to the education sector. Hamzat Abdulsalam Abiodun, a 200-Level student at  the  Federal University of Technology, Akure, Ondo State, said: “We want a  leader who is  concerned about securing the future of the country. Someone who would stabilise the education sector from the grassroots, by reviewing curricula from the basic classes to tertiary and post-tertiary institutions to ensure compliance with international standards.” Seun Adesida, a student at Obafemi  University, expects a leader who would be closer to the people and well updated about modern trends in education. “The education sector is suffering because our leaders have no knowledge of running the sector adequately. “We want a leader that feels the citizens’ pain because he knows his family members and children go through it as well, preferably a youth. This saying ‘the future belongs to the youth’,  remains a saying because youths have not been given a chance. A wealthy president in his 70s would seemingly not know what this new generation needs, let alone  understand the feelings of youths or should I say students.” For Salaudeen Oladeni Usman, a  Mass Communication student at  The Polytechnic, Ibadan, a leader who would prioritise and increase budgetary allocation for education is ideal. Saheed Abiola, a Federal University, Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE) student, said: “I suggest a  leader that is not only interested in the education sector, but would also provide an enabling environment for innovation and overseas job sourcing for qualified students.” Semilore Omueti, a student at  Lagos State University (LASU), said the country needed  youthful leadership. He noted that there was a need to change the political system and stop recycling the same set of people.   AFYMP offers media training to 90 students     Is Nigeria’s unity not negotiable?     Group seeks access to qualitative education for children   He said: “Someone who would do what  is  right for the people.  Youths should be given a chance . Human resources are key in every government but this current government is not investing in education where we lack human resources. Our best graduates are either unemployed or underemployed. Some are even in foreign countries where their abilities are put to good use. The new leader/ government should invest more in education and create jobs to help students.” Igbodane David Tombra,  a student at  the University of Benin (UNIBEN), stressed the importance of the education sector and urged the next administration to address its challenges to avoid incessant ASUU strike. He said:”I hope the next administration would be headed by someone who would have us at heart and revamp  the education sector.” Utute Gift, a Nursing student at Novena University,  Delta State, said: “I would love a leader who won’t disappoint the people. “Honestly, I would want a youth to lead, all these old people have disappointed us over and over. “Only a fellow youth who has suffered from ASUU strikes, starvation, and the rest wouldl be able to understand how we feel and how to work on it. “The old ones are working with an old mentality of entitlement.” Alarape Habeebat, a 400-Level student at Ladoke Akintola University of Technology LAUTECH, said: “The kind of leader we need is someone who is not  only concerned about politics, but also about youths. “We need a leader that cares about the less privileged and not those who mouth fake promises during campaigns. “Someone who sees education as a priority; one who would tackle unemployment.” Ajulo Adebayo, a FUOYE student, said: “I want a leader with the agenda of ‘No more ASUU strike’. I will also want the new government to pay off the country’s debt in instalments to ease our economic woes.” Tomi Adesuyi, a  LASU student, wants a leader who would  ensure that lecturers are well paid and the budget of education increased. Ibrahim Kherimah, a student at  Ekiti State University (EKSU), wants a leader who would prioritise education at all levels. She said: “I desire a kind of leader that will value education and also have good plans for youths. “How do they want to convince us that education is the key to success when everywhere is surrounded by poor graduates and rich criminals?”