Traders in Onitsha Main Market, Anambra State have commenced decongestion of the market, including removal of illegal structures and shop extensions erected on tarred roads in the area. Leader of the demolition taskforce, and Provost of the market, Mr Felix Umerah said the exercise was carried out in compliance with government directives. Umerah, also a trader in Main Market disclosed that the governor had ordered all market executives in the State to decongest every entrance roads into their various markets to pave way for free flow of human and vehicular movements. “We are removing all the shop attachments and projections that block roads causing obstruction to movements to and fro this market, particularly along Bright Street and White House axis and reduce our level of sales and patronage from our customers,” he said. Speaking with officials from Ministry of Commerce and Industry who visited the site, Secretary of the market, Mr Obijekwu Ifediora regretted obstruction of roads in the market by traders who preferred displaying their wares along the roads to their shops.   Akintoye dissolves Ilana Omo Oodua executive council     2023: Tinubu presents Shettima Wednesday     IGP orders Portable’s investigation over One million…   He said, “We mobilized a joint taskforce with some security apparatus to rid the market roads of all obstructions, and to send these traders and huckters back into their respective shops. “As you can see, two vehicles can now overtake each here, there will be normal and peaceful movements of humans and vehicles in these roads again. This is how roads ought to be.” Another member of the decongestion committee, Hon Victor Adizi thanked Governor Soludo, and Commissioner for Commerce and Industry, Dr Obinna Ngonadi for the good works they are doing in the State. “The Governor’s directive being enforced will create a conducive environment for business to thrive in the main market,” he said. He called on the government to empower them with written authority to enable them also clear Bida and Sokoto roads where certain locals protested over jurisdiction of territory.