No fewer than 1,000 residents of Okpoko community in Ogbaru Local Government Area of Anambra State have raised the alarm over what they described as deliberate estimated astronomical billings by the Enugu Electricity Distribution Company (EEDC). The protesters accused EEDC of collecting payments for services not rendered running into billions of naira. They threatened mass action against the power company. Addressing reporters yesterday in Onitsha, Secretary of the Concerned Residents and Landlords of Okpoko, Obumneke Ohiagu said they have itemised an eight-point agenda of all alleged exploitative actions of the EEDC against consumers in the area. He regretted that several letters written to the management to address the issues failed.   N30m property destroyed in Enugu college fire     Another gas well-head blowout in Bayelsa community     Anambra records two cases of Monkey Pox   He said, “The Concerned Residents and Landlords of Okpoko was formed as a child of necessity to act as a pressure group over various acts of negligence, intimidation and pauperisation of the residents thickly populated by low income earners. “Our interim Chairman, Chief Christian Achionye died in mysterious circumstances a few days ago after much pressure by the Okpoko town union leadership in connivance with EEDC who instigated their arrest, detention and subsequent arraignment in court because of their struggle to liberate the Okpoko people from long years of suffering.” Another stakeholder, Macsam Aballa appealed for government’s intervention to avert impending crisis in the community occasioned by growing discontent among the people. He said majority of the residents have passed a vote of no confidence in the President General of the Okpoko Development Union, Chief Francis Enemuo. When contacted, Head of Public Communications, EEDC, Emeka Ezeh refuted alleged exploitation of customers, saying the company has its billing methodology based on energy supplied. He advised residents of the area to channel their grievances to the appropriate quarters for prompt attention.