Former Nigeria’s minister for youth and Sports Solomon Dalung said  the country will continue to witness standoffs between the ministry of sports  and the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) over elections until the laws establishing the NFF is domesticated. Dalung was speaking in Abuja at the public presentation of the book Sports Law and Practice written by Dr  Emmanuel Oluwafemi Olowononi, a senior lecturer at Nigerian Law School, Abuja, Nigeria, Dalung said  the problems befuddling the NFF will continue unless something drastic is done over its electoral procedures. “This crisis (within the NFF) will continue, unless and until a piece of legislation is made to define interests, limitations and boundaries for practitioners,” Dalung declared.”What rules sports now is the opinion of men and then some pieces of international treaties smuggled in, like the FIFA Status they keep talking about.” The Plateau State born administrator  further condemned  FIFA  on its status regarding the operations of its affiliated  national federations including the NFF. “FIFA status as far as I’m concerned is just a piece of worthless paper,” the firebrand Dalung further said.“Because the constitution provides that for an international treaty to have the force of law in Nigeria, it must be domesticated by the national assembly.   Oregon 2022: Tobi Amusan wins gold, sets new record twice     Oregon 2022: World Record a bonus, says Amusan     Oregon 2022: World Record is a bonus, says Amusan   “As I’m talking to you, the national assembly has not domesticated the FIFA law and yet we practice sports in Nigeria with a legislation our local system is not known to. “So, this crisis about elections will continue, because whether a president will spend how many terms has been drawn by law. “ Limitation of tenure is already in the construction, so if the Nigerian construction has limited tenure to two terms why do you have people with life terms in national federations? “ he queried. Dalung added: “That is a contradiction to the spirit of our national constitution. While I was there, I limited the tenures to two terms to bring it in confirmation with our constitution, but I’m not there now, so I don’t know what is happening,” The book, Sports Law and Practice is the first of its kind in Nigeria and it is a product of 1O year’s legal research penned  by  Olowononi, a PhD holder.