The University of Oxford, England, has congratulated popular disc jockey, Florence Ifeoluwa Otedola aka Cuppy on the successful completion of her thesis. Cuppy had taken to microblogging app Twitter, to announce to her fans that she had successfully completed her thesis after several weeks of dedication and working relentlessly. In March 2021, Cuppy announced she was going back to school to pursue a second master’s degree at the Ivy League institution. She shared a picture of her admission letter as well as a video informing her parents about the development via her Instagram. The entertainer at some point considered throwing in the towel because she was experiencing conflicting emotions following her decision to return to the varsity for a third degree. She eventually chose to pull through with her decision as she took to Twitter on Friday to announce that her thesis is now done and dusted.   Estranged wife, Anita drags Paul Okoye to court over alleged…     I feel like getting married – Iyabo Ojo     Davido to feature on Chris Brown’s ‘Breezy’…   Sharing an emotional photo with tears of joy trickling down her cheeks, the fulfilled Cuppy in a series of tweets recounted the journey so far while expressing gratitude to the most high for everything. Not waiting for anyone, the proud 29-year-old “Gelato” singer ‘patted her back’ and took her ‘flowers’ noting she has accomplished what only few persons can. “TEARS OF JOY The wait is finally over!!! My THESIS for @UniofOxford is finally 100% done and submitted!!! Not sure why weeping is my reaction right now. I’m so drained that it actually feels so difficult to celebrate. #CuppyOnAMission. “Over the last few weeks, I’ve pushed myself SO much, both mentally and physically to actually finish this degree. Truthfully, this has been one of the most challenging experiences of my life… This paper alone has made me want to drop out of Oxford University twice. “I’ve done something only a few can do, and I don’t need to ask for anyone’s respect or flowers – I’ve earned them! People keep asking where the party is?! LOL I need to rest and rebuild… I am fatigued and partying is the last thing on my mind. Grateful to the Most High”, she tweeted. Reacting, the University of Oxford with it official Twitter handle wrote: “Congratulations on completing your thesis!”