Aside from the entertainment it provides, football is also a very profitable enterprise. Nigerians are ardent sports fans, and as a result, sporting ventures have produced enormous profits for owners and stakeholders in Nigeria. Because of the huge popularity and profits, many Nigerian celebrities have invested in football clubs in recent decades. Businessman and politician, Senator Ifeanyi Ubah, founded the NPFL club “Ifeanyi Ubah FC” in the year 2015. The club has its headquarters at Nnewi, Anambra State. F.C. Ifeanyi Ubah is one of the few privately run football clubs in the country. The club has gained massive success as a newly formed club garnering droves of fans all around the south eastern part of Nigeria and the Country at large. He is the proud owner of two football clubs: Nigerian club Remo Stars and Portuguese club CD Feirense. He founded Remo Stars in 2004 and was the first Nigerian to acquire a European club C.D. Feirense in 2015. Soname is also the chairman of Bet9ja, a betting website he founded in 2013.   Osun: fear grips PDP camp     Anxiety as INEC closes nomination for presidential, NASS…     Osun 2022: PRP candidate lampoons executives over withdrawal…   3. Daniel K. Olukoya The MFM Football Club was founded in 2007 by the Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries, a popular deliverance church, whose founder and General Overseer is no other person but Dr. Daniel K. Olukoya. On 31 August 2015, MFM FC was promoted to the Nigeria Premier League. The Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries Football Club of Lagos won the maiden edition of The Church World Cup. The Nigeria representatives achieved this feat after defeating the United Church of Colombia 7–0 in the final of the mundial which took place in India. Felix Obuah is the founder of Nigerian football club Go Round FC, which is located in Rivers State, Nigeria. It was founded in 1994. The team was relegated in the 2018/2019 season of the Nigerian Professional Football League to the Nigeria National League after it failed to secure several wins. In 2011, former Senate President Bukola Saraki established the football club known as ABS FC, which is located in Ilorin. The team is sometimes fondly known as “Bukola Babes.” In 2016, the team returned to the Nigeria Professional Football League.