Senior citizens of Epe and Ikorodu divisions in Lagos East senatorial districts of Lagos state on Saturday applauded the efforts of the Senator representing the district in the National Assembly, Senator Adetokunbo Abiru, towards giving the constituents of the area better living conditions. Speaking under the aegis of The Eminent Persons of Lagos East (TEMPLE) they said the newly built 960-capacity Stadium and upgraded Oluwo Fish Market delivered in Epe by the Senator would bring socio economic development to the area. TEMPLE commended Abiru for the projects when our correspondent engaged its Chairman, Dr. Olukoya Cladius Ashafa and its Publicity Secretary, Alhaji Jamiu Adio Sarafa, in a discussion at the weekend. According to the group, Abiru’s intervention is the first time the popular fish market experienced a total overhaul since it was built over 40 years ago by the Alhaji Lateef Jakande administration.   Abia Commissioner of Police Presents N21m Cheques To…     NDDC dedicates African Union’s award to Buhari     PAP confirms canceling firm’s contracts over breach   The leadership of TEMPLE expressed satisfaction with Senator Abiru and declared that “it is not enough for people to say our Senator is doing good; it is more important for everybody to see that he is indeed, doing good. If anybody doubts Abiru’s goodness, let them take a trip to Epe and see what he has done with the mini stadium and the Oluwo Fish Market. With these projects, Epe and its environs would experience more infrastructure development for the benefit of the people. “We are elated to see the outcome of these projects. The fish market was expanded to accommodate 240 open stalls, 80 lock-up stalls, five open trading areas, 12 convinence facilities and four new offices for market leaders while the mini-stadium would positively affect people’s lifestyle, improve sporting activities of the youth and translate to health benefits and improved quality of life. “While we congratulate Senator Abiru for living up to our expectations of him as a federal legislator, we call for more state and federal government presence in our senatorial district in order to boost the socio-economic status of the divisions, LCDAs, towns and communities therein. We urge Senator Abiru and other representatives of the people to continue to strive for more dividends of democracy for the people,” the group said.