An official of Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Saka Adegbayi Onagbanjo, has cautioned commercial bus operators against flouting traffic rules. Onagbanjo, who is LASTMA deputy controller of Operations, said there were consequences for disobeying traffic regulations. He spoke at a sensitisation programme for commercial drivers organised by an official of the drivers’ union, Alhaji Azeez Abiola. “Most offences drivers commit are indiscriminate picking and dropping of passengers. This act attracts a 50,000 fine and a bill will be given to go for training at Lagos State Driver’s Institute. ‘’Also, inability to use seat belts which is for safety and not punishment. Driving in a direction prohibited by traffic law (ONE-WAY); the fine is forfeiture of the vehicle to the government. Receiving phone calls while driving attracts between  20,000 and  30,000 fine.”   Police recruitment based on merit, not politics,…     Buhari celebrates Amusan, Brume over World Athletics feats     FCT taskforce begins massive demolition of…   Alhaji Abiola urged drivers to see driving as a responsible and noble profession. He enjoined the drivers to get their permanent voters’ card. Outpost Commander of Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in Ikotun, Lagos, Toyin Ladipo, advised drivers to get valid licences. “When you drive with your driver’s licence, it gives you an edge over the law. If a driver hits someone mistakenly leading to death and he doesn’t have a driver’s licence, he will be charged for murder and the punishment is life imprisonment. But if he kills someone and he has a licence, he will be charged with manslaughter which punishment is between six and seven years imprisonment.” He urged drivers to put everything that was said at the programme into good use. “I implore all drivers to have their drivers licence. I will advice all drivers to get a valid drivers’ licence because it’s essential and for them to have attitudinal change towards using the road. I implore every driver to please behave after this sensitisation programme,” Ladipo said.