AFTER two successful seasons, Femi Ogundoro’s FoodBay TV has announced plans for the third season of the docu-reality cooking contest, Streetz Food. According to Maxima Media, owners of FoodBay TV and organiser of the docu-reality cooking contest, the winner of the contest dubbed King of Street Food, will go home with a sum of N10 million worth of prizes. While the winner in the maiden edition won N1 million, and the first runner-up got N500, 000, the winner of the second season won N5 million. Launched in 2019, Street Foodz Naija is aimed at promoting local cuisine, as well as supporting entrepreneurs in the food sector and rebranding street foods. Oluwafemi Ogundoro, Managing Director of Maxima media said Street Foodz Naija has always been digitally driven. According to him, participation in the competition can be done seamlessly online without the need for external involvement or direct contact, in line with the new normal brought about by the Coronavirus pandemic.   NCC reads riot act to copyright infringers     Keppy Ekpeyong, Peace Anyiam-Osigwe, Achor Yusuf lead AMA’s…     Burna Boy speaks about life after turning 30   Ogundoro disclosed that contestants for season three will be selected across Nigeria, just as the reward system for the previous seasons reviewed upward. According to him, the winner will get N10m, a renovated workspace, an SME toolkit, and a scholarship to a culinary and business school. Providing more insight into the previous seasons, Ogundoro explained “Season 3 is bigger and better than what we experienced in the previous seasons and it’s more empowering. What the winner would be getting is quite bigger. Season one was just N1 million for the winner, N5 million for season 2, and N10m for season 3.” Streetz Food is a docu-reality series is about street food or on-the-go food in Nigeria from the perspective of hope, inspiration, and empowerment with a focus on meals served on the streets of Nigeria. Featuring street foodpreneurs that will have to compete for a grand prize.