Few days after the speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila boasted of his acquaintance with the Speaker of the British parliament and how he would leverage it to help Ike Ekweremadu and his wife currently held in British custody, the Senate where Ekweremadu belonged, decided it would send a delegation to the U.K for a purpose that is not quite clear. Whether the Senate delegation would be liaising with the British House of the Lords, the equivalent of the Nigeria’s upper chamber though, with ceremonial functions or visiting British police or magistrate court in Uxbridge that sentenced him and his wife to the police custody or just a mere solidarity visit to one of its own is not clear. The Speaker of the House of Representative in his earlier remark on the issue has also directed the House Committee on foreign affairs to wade into the matter. But now all these exuberant fulminations and grandstanding by the two chambers of the National Assembly would  help Ekweremadu and his wife is a mere conjecture except that it may actually worsen their matter with the British authorities and prolong the legal tangle. For the avoidance of doubt, Ekweremadu and his wife deserve sympathy in their current ordeal, because any parent would do anything legitimately possible to secure the good health of their children. However, Ekweremadu both as a lawyer and a lawmaker should have known or would have striven to know that Europe have very complicated rules on organ transplant and that is why most people choose India where the rules are less stringent. And because of politicians’ generally low esteem among many Nigerians  who view them as mostly  predators ever ready to trample on marginalized Nigerians to further their limitless avarice, a pathetic situation of the couple and their family that would have mobilized broad national solidarity behind them have left the usual divide between “them and us” in the public space. However, this intervention is really about how the National Assembly overreach may prolong the agony of the Ekweremadus. The British regale in their assumption that their legal and judicial system is beyond political reproach and influence-peddling and the kind of grandstanding of the both chambers of the National Assembly with the unmistakable undertone of political influence peddling is exactly what the British detest. If the research wing of the National Assembly is active and actually up to its work or if the leadership of the National Assembly have sought informed views, they would have been dutifully informed that foreign politicians and even highly placed ones don’t have it easy with the British legal system. Former Chilean dictator General Angusto Piochet who ruled his country with iron fist from 1973 to 1983 and later inserted himself as senator for life with immunity of any Chilean law was arrested in London in 1998, after he arrived for a minor back surgery. He was detained based on the court rulings of two activist Spanish judges-  Baltaser Garzon and Manuel Garcia Castellon who have previously indicted him for gross human rights violations.   Akeredolu’s CCTV order     Don’t drop Okowa as running mate, Igbo youths warn…     Catholic Church rejects Lagos’ abortion guidelines   Despite having travelled on a diplomatic passport, it was the British who alerted the Spanish judges to issue international arrest warrant for his arrest which led to Pinochet being held in London for 16 months despite the protestations of the Chilean government. General Pinochet is a cold war western ally who mounted the infamous 1973, September 11th  coup in Chile that toppled the affable and widely popular elected socialist president of the country, Allende Salvador.  Mr. Salvador was killed in the coup. Instigated by General Pinochet and greatly helped by the America’s CIA and other western intelligent services, including the British M15, Pinochet went on to institute the most heinous and brutal rule, well known to the West but then, condoned on account of his regimes value to the cold war efforts of the West especially in securing the western hemisphere or South America to the West’s fold. General Augusto Pinochet should rank as one of the most reliable British foreign friends but the British did not shy away from taking him into police custody for 16 month at the age of 82 years, just to make the point that their legal and judicial system is beyond foreign political manipulation and influence peddling. It was in 2000, two solid years after General Pinochet came to London for the surgery which immediately snowballed into a legal heist that the former Chilean dictator who turned 84 years old while in British police custody that the then British minister of justice, Jack Straw decided to let the wily old dictator go home. In the case of Ekweremadu, his matter is an alleged infraction of British law, partly on a British soil, therefore, seeking to exert any form of political influence as the National Assembly seemed to purport, would likely hit a brick wall. Sending a senate delegation to London and working up, the house committee on foreign affairs to wade into the matter are unnecessary grandstanding that have no prospects to bring relief to the Ekweremadus. Except for a mere solidarity visit, the senate delegation is on sight-seeing tour of the U.K but the cost of such trip which will be made on business class air tickets, five-star hotel and a humungous estacode is grossly insensitive to the plights of millions of Nigerians who wallow in hunger, poverty and misery while their representatives cash in on any opportunity to pursue affluence and luxury. Nigeria has a High Commission in London with the compliment of full diplomatic staff. Pray, what actually would the visiting senate delegation be doing in London to help Ekweremadu that the Nigeria High Commission with its resident diplomatic staff would not do? The presence of the senate delegation or any other legislative committee would only inflame and incense the British more and give effect to their prejudice that Nigerian politicians are vain and that their behaviour only give liberal and constitutional democracy a bad name. There are actually times, when silence is golden and such moment should have been now when the National Assembly should have quietly encouraged the Nigeria High Commission in London to do all within their legitimate duty to help Ekweremadu and his wife, in their legal troubles with the British law. The British are more resentful of influence peddling than even the Americans and anything to suggest that their system has been rigged or manipulated is at least outwardly rejected. The country is in hole with assorted range of challenges, including insecurity, poverty and misery that have been unknown in the history of the country before and instead of the “representatives” of the people being seen to exert themselves to utmost to bring succour to the people, they are behaving as a social club that looks out exclusively to the welfare of its members.