Exactly three weeks after, the country continues to grope in search of explanations for the stupefying breach of that supposedly impregnable custodial centre within an earshot to the Nigeria’s seat of power. Built in 1989, the Kuje Custodial Centre came under the fire of terrorists at the end of which over 800 prisoners, notable among of which were 60 Boko Haram terrorists, simply took a walk. Before the Kuje incident, there had been similar attacks on correctional facilities in Owerri, Bauchi, Ubiaja in Edo State, Kurmawa in Kano, Jos, Kabba in Kogi, and Abolongo in Oyo State. Never mind the serial humiliation of the country and the astounding rationalisation of incompetence that followed, Nigerians, if not the world, has since been gifted with copious literature on how not to handle a sensitive national security institution like a correctional centre. Now, the joke in town is that no institution is inviolable; not even the supposedly sacred precincts of Abuja’s Three Arm Zone – no thanks to the bungling by officials who, were things to be normal, should have no business in the sensitive security sector. So much for the running national security tragedy thought to have climaxed in the March 28 blow-up of the Abuja – Kaduna rail and the consequent killing of eight people and abduction of 63 others. Clearly, if that terrible incident was meant to present a teachable moment for the nation and its security apparatus, other serial humiliations that have followed, topmost of which is the horrendous killing of at least 43 people including 30 soldiers and seven mobile police personnel in an attack on a mining site in Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State, have since presented in stark colours, the difference between a de facto government and a de jure one.  For without as much as the hoisting of the terrorists’ flag on the soil of the Nigerlites, the good people of Shiroro, like their kin in Zamfara and Katsina, surely know the difference between the formal authority flowing from Minna and the raw power oozing from the redoubt of the terrorists not to appreciate the essence of true allegiance! Of course, if anyone ever imagined those serial killings would somehow mark the moment to draw the line to what seems to be a determined humbling of the African Giant by the rabid band of terrorists; two recent but related events – the turbaning of the bandit leader – Adamu Aliero – as Serkin Fulani (leader of Fulani) by the now suspended Emir of Yandoto, Aliyu Garba Marafa, and the trending video of the victims of the railways abductions being flogged by the terrorists, would appear the final rite of humiliation for a country whose armed forces were once rated among the best, not just in the continent but in the global south. Just imagine – the loonies, now emboldened, are no longer content with hunting for high net worth victims, they now want the heads of President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Nasir El- Rufai served on a platter! Talk of a country that has gone full cycle. A little while back, Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina not only embraced the bandits, he actually negotiated and granted them amnesty. His words: “Because they (terrorists) said they are Muslims, we went as far as asking them to swear to the Holy Qur’an that they will never participate in banditry again”. Well, they did – only to return to the lucrative business of banditry a little while after.  He would later tell a visiting United Nations Development Programme delegation that he had negotiated with “thieves”.   So, what happened at Osun?     Pastor Poju and the lynch mob     Religion and politics   “Anybody who says he is going to engage them on anything is free. I will pray for him but I will not do it again,” he was quoted to have said, saying that after failing him twice, he would be a fool “to go the same way”. That was then. The bandits have not only become implacable, they have since transformed into full-time terrorists, setting up camps and military bases with highly sophisticated network of informants complete with communications systems. With Rocket Propelled Guns, they even dared to take down an aircraft at some point! Just as they have camps that can house hundreds of their kidnapped victims, in all likelihood, they have hundreds of fighting men primed to engage at any given point. And then the matching logistics to guarantee not just that the basic living standards are met but such other equipment considered necessary for their deadly operations. Their modus operandi as has become evident is to deploy the instrument of fear to enforce their will. Now, the government, initially reluctant to declare the terrorists as such, have since done so. Sadly, whereas the scale appears to have fallen from the eyes of the Nigerian leadership, nothing in their new awareness of the character of the enemy appears to have led to any change of strategy or tactics. If anything, it has been more of the same. From imponderable dilatoriness to sometimes empty posturing, government’s responses to the terror challenge has been most pathetic. When they talk about engagement, negotiation or whatever, it is oftentimes more out of weakness than strength; from dictating the terms and conditions for releasing their luckless victims to such profile escapades and show of force, such has been the daring attempt by the terrorits to present the government as weak and ineffectual and the military as lacking the fighting spirit. Say what you may of the poor Zamfara emir; he probably had enough good sense to know what it means to hearken to the daily yearnings of his people to be left to enjoy their lives in peace than what the government in Gusau or even the Federal Government cares to understand. For while his understanding might have been that a title on the bandit leader would be worth more than its value in gold should peace finally to return to the beleaguered emirate, the chap in Gusau, Bello Matawalle, who wears the title of the Chief Security Officer, and President Muhammadu Buhari, the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces would in the same vein seem to him as far too distant, and certainly too remote to be able to address his immediate existential challenges hence his resort to self-help! Talk of an unenviable position to be in! His banishment to Siberia should afford him enough time to rue the lessons. Finally, on the trending video on the flogging of the kidnap victims. Truly, it is gut-wrenching – so much so that some have described it is the final (?) crossing of the proverbial red line. Agreed. But then, how many of such red lines have those savages crossed in the last seven years with the government betraying utter helplessness? And why should anyone expect this latest provocation to be different?