In what appears to be a record-breaking feat, an Afro-Italian of Nigerian descent, Victoria Oluboyo, has been elected as a city councilor in Parma, Italy. Oluboyo is the first Black African to be elected as a city councilor in Parma municipality. With this remarkable feat, the 28-year-old councilor has joined the long list of African women who are breaking the glass ceiling just like year’s campaign theme — #BreakTheBias and making waves internationally. Oluboyo’s feat shows that women, globally, are challenging the status quo by contributing immensely and working hard. They are self-confident and not afraid to push all the boundaries required to breast the tape in whatever field they choose. Meanwhile, the list of trailblazers of Nigerian descent, in public offices across the globe is non-exhaustive, and Oluboyo’s emergence has once again proved that politics and all other areas are not exclusive to the male club. With an academic background in Jurisprudence, Oluboyo studied law at Università degli Studi di Parma – University of Parma, and was a student representative at UDU per Giurisprudenza, Scienze Politiche e Servizio Sociale.   Fresh trouble for Tambuwal, Bala, others as court axes Umahi     2023: Buhari hails APC leaders over choice of candidates     Abubakar Aliyu and the never-ending power grid collapse   For Oluboyo, her mantra is to fight for the weak in society, protect human rights, and fight against all forms of racism and discrimination. She has also hinged her campaign on gender equality, community rights, people with disabilities, college students, and young people’s rights. Oluboyo also takes her success and talents into her activism. She is leading the inspirational journey and channeling her brilliance into politics. Celebrating Oluboyo’s feat, a Nigerian in diaspora, Olufemi Iyanda, who broke the news, said that some years ago, when Nigerian names were mentioned, especially in Parma city, they were usually connected with prostitution and drug selling. Victoria is a member, the narrative was changed. He said: “First, Nigerian missionaries headed by Apostle and Bishop (Mrs) Adenitire are the first to get involved in rehabilitation and resettlement of trafficked and prostitution victims, through their charity organisation, Festival of Praise and Care, in collaboration with the Parma municipality. “We equally raised awareness and encouraged Nigerians in voluntary association and community development initiatives that today have placed Nigerians in enviable positions, not only in Parma but across the region. “We are glad that Victoria made us proud through her relentlessness and commitment to issues that bother on female rights and emancipation cum political activism that culminate in her success story today. Five years ago, she tried but failed but today, God has crowned her efforts with success.”