Akin Fadeyi Foundation (AFF) is set to launch the ‘What Women Can Do’ competition aimed at stimulating a gender-inclusive leadership conversation across the cyberspace. A statement by the Executive Director, Akin Fadeyi, the event will kick off with a pre-event media conversation and convergence on July 19, at 11am. He said: “This gathering will speak to and unearth the huge possibilities that remain unleashed in the country with the loud absence of the participation of women in the public space, especially after the just concluded party primaries.   Court rules today on Oyo deputy governor’s impeachment     Delta APC chief: Nigeria will be great again under Tinubu     Appeal Court didn’t order sub-licensing, says…   “It is also an affirmation of the Gender Equality and Social Inclusion programme thrust of our funders, the MacAuthur Foundation. ‘What women can do’ will speak to how leadership will be a lot more impactful when women are empowered to act as equal stakeholders in national development. “The ultimate objective of this programme will be to encourage women to endure in their leadership ambitions despite the present turns in Nigerian politics, to re-affirm their capabilities as equally endowed social actors who are not intellectually subordinate in any way, and to stimulate public conversation on the need for gender parity in the access to power. “The Akin Fadeyi Foundation is motivated by the understanding that while Nigeria has never been in lack of high quality women who can play major progressive roles in politics, a number of the factors have skewed the system against women from earlier times. Of the competitors who will make leadership pitches and speak to any topic of interest from agriculture to education, healthcare, power generation, science and innovation, 10 finalists will be selected. The top five finalists will be rewarded with different gifts on the basis of the strength, innovativeness, uniqueness and acceptability of their pitches. Another set of five finalists will go away with consolation prizes.”