Votes may always be sold and paid for in Nigeria. The motive for selling and the purchase of votes would, however, differ across political platforms, cultures, and climes. Nigerians would rationalise this to reinforce their vanities and fantasies of political correctness. The chaos of artifice, clashing troops and dubious bromides, is purged and pervasive at the twilight of every administration. It becomes gross and easily accessible en route to the polls and the ushering in of a new dispensation. Whatever the loathing and rationalisation of Ademola Adeleke’s emergence as Osun’s new governor-elect, for instance, pundits may rest assured that the people made their choice through their votes, and the wisdom or folly of their action would manifest over four years. Politics will part you from your money and professed values as efficiently as the Yahoo Boy lurking at an atrocious click-bait away. It’s part of the culture. It is all about heightening your hopes to fleece you of money, values, and hope; when these run out, you might as well cease to exist. Ask the casualties of ambition gone awry: the failed aspirants at the recently concluded presidential primaries across the All Progressives Congress (APC), People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Labour Party, and the African Democratic Congress (ADC),  among other platforms. Yet each failed aspirant shied from brutal honesty about his role in our pervasive culture of exploitation. To deal with their loss, they resort to mischief, spreading falsehood and inciting loyalists to vapid protestation. It gets grislier on social media, the virtual threshing floor of the ignorant from the wise, the cognizant from the uninformed. In this arena, the maladroit cancels out the reflective; everybody is a pundit. Thus to question a trending preoccupation of the herd has become even among the so-called liberal elite, an unforgivable heresy. Folks wield lavish contempt for any perspective that queries or opposes their preferred sentiments. Such characters can only be confronted by an expansion in breadth of human reason, catholicity of will, and culture. The native aspiration of such a herd to covet and project candidates whose chief preoccupation is to loot our coffers and feed their greed, for instance, must not be encouraged any further. Nor should we persist in pitiful complacency and eagerness to acquiesce to their boorish enterprises, for the love of sentiment or token. To stimulate the wildly weak and untamed mind is to ignite a ravenous and uncontrollable fire, and to impede our often rudderless enterprise is to incite the volatile minds to a harvest of violence and blood-letting, Du Bois would say. Politics must be rid of bitterness and cutthroat rivalry. Political passivity bred by a culture of illusion is exploited by demagogues who present themselves as saviours to a submissive population. These pseudo revolutionaries are further validated by the robust toxicity of the marketplace of prejudice patronised by powerful elements among the political class and electorate. Mob tyranny has steered us towards a radically dictatorial direction. This dictatorship cuts both ways, afflicting us with tyrant democrats among the political class and the electorate. The prevalent bullying between right-wing and left-wing political divides further highlights how feeble the commitment to democracy is in the Nigerian circumstance. While the youth have been drawn appreciably towards politics, it is alarming to see the levels of ignorance and base sentimentality fostered amid rival political divides. “If you are not for my candidate, you are the enemy!” becomes their battle cry as they fight dirty online and offline. Through it all, democracy plummets the steep slope of decline, beleaguered. The extent to which young people scorn truth and reason and embrace intolerance makes them vulnerable to the lying demagogue. Partisan media frantically influence public debate about contesting candidates and alternative forms of power. Ultimately, they seek to determine who gets heard and who does not; each news medium seeks to malign every rival of its preferred candidate.   2023: As cyber-Nigeria turns toxic spectacle     The ballot is sexier than bullets     Harvesting hearts from fresh crops of the dead   Like criminals forsworn against good nature, multimedia pundits discuss politics as a horse race. Rather than discuss the crucial issues and ideologies promising progressive reform, they obsess with the pseudo-events staged by rival candidates. Such partisan press evolves like a bitch; a scrawny, docile mutt led only by wild instincts and subservience to crafty,  self-seeking characters. Media tyranny is bodacious and corruptive of intellect, yet the unstated ethic of partisan intelligentsia is to survive by justifying the dominance of sentiments or deep pockets. Through it all, you are forced to wonder: Does power truly repose in the electorate? How can we stage a peaceful but decisive revolt by our votes without malice and blood-letting? Is the current electorate capable of such a noble exploit? To these bothersome questions and contradictory tributaries of thought, the potent and yet inadequately explored panacea of education towers above all others. We live in dire need of human training that will awaken our minds to the timeless knowledge inherent in the idealistic and the practical, the realistic and the fantastic, the permanent and the contingent, in a workable equilibrium. The incumbent electorate comprises two fractions of radical beings: the cantankerous, irrational illiterate, and semi-literate constituted by street urchins, park thugs, petty traders, and criminals. The other fraction consists of the methodically savage kind including the so-called articulate, cultured, progressive breed comprising young, upwardly mobile professionals: doctors, engineers, journalists, lawyers, teachers, the armed forces, civil servants, and unemployed graduates. Both divides are afflicted by bitter cynicism and despondency. They betray as much bestiality as the political class particularly in instances demanding inviolable tact, sensitivity, and maturity. Their reactions to the victory of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP)’s Ademola Adeleke at the recently concluded gubernatorial polls in Osun State, are also instructive. Irrespective of the dynamics that gifted Adeleke victory over the incumbent, All Progressives Congress (APC)’s Gboyega  Oyetola, virtual space pulsates with acrimony, name-calling, cursing, and hate-mongering even among spectators far removed from the politics of Osun State. Previous reactions to the arrest and subsequent trial of corrupt public officers also provide a worthy yardstick by which the nature of partisanship may be judged across the country. Many would adduce reasons bordering on ethnic and religious bigotries in decrying the “persecution” of alleged looters of public office even where the latter have issued confessions substantiating the charges against them. Such characters are incapable of rational, cognitive, and affective sensitivities pivotal to nation-building. Everyday encounters with gluttonous gangs of “struggling youth” reveal, among other things, that, many are the same social products as their peers across the political class and aristocratic divide. A visit to any nightclub, party congress, or religious office attests to this fact. There, several youths engage in unjustifiable excesses, to the applause of mates yearning to be in their shoes; be they advance fee fraudsters, bankers, journalists, ‘prophets,’ accountants, secretaries, factory hands or ordinary clerks, youths, they engage in a bitter, desperate struggle to chance on sudden and stupendous wealth. How could such vitally impaired characters be trusted to conduct their affairs appropriately? Thus the imperative of a practical, ingenious process of human training in the struggle to build a truly progressive and formidable movement of the people, for the people, and by the people. Yet democracy is simply never enough. Nigeria will never become that model nation of our dreams until we evolve a social process that enables sufficient nurturing, the guidance of thought, and adroit coordination of deeds – sureties to freedom, peace, equality, justice, and rebirth. This brings us back again to the issue of quality education.