About 11,226 personnel of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) have been deployed for the election. Commandant-General of the Corps Ahmed Audi enjoined the officials to work with other security agencies to forestall unrest or breach of the peace in the 3,763 polling units across the 31 councils. A statement by the Director of Public Relations, Olusola Odumosu, said the deployed officers were drawn from the national headquarters and nine state commands of Osun, Ondo, Ekiti, Oyo, Ogun, Lagos, Kwara, Kogi and Edo. It reads: “The objective of the Corps is to create a secured environment for the successful conduct of the election, and enhance the general security in the state before, during and after the election. The officers have attended various workshops on best practices during election, and they have been acquainted with the provisions of the Electoral Act regarding Rules of Engagement. Hence, they must comply with the Corps’ Operational Code, Standard Operating Procedure and, above all, display of professionalism and high sense of discipline throughout the election…”   Buhari: ‘Something to remember me by’     Choosing to act     Double jeopardy? Just as well!   The Corps also provided Operational Hot Lines – 08060003181, 08032898909 and N-Alert Situation Room Hotlines: 08066005861, 08032928878 and 07034322058 for ease of communication. The Police Service Commission (PSC) has also deployed staff monitors in the 30 Local Government Areas to monitor the conduct of police officers during tomorrow’s election. PSC will also be at the Situation Room of the Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) and the Security Control Room at the Police State Command Headquarters in Osogbo, the state capital. The first batch of the delegation arrived in Osun State on July 12, while the second batch were expected yesterday. Chairman of the Commission Alhaji Musiliu Smith, a retired Inspector General of Police (IG), urged police officers involved in the elections to beat the Ekiti State record. Smith called for greater commitment from the police so that the election will ‘signpost a bright future for election policing, especially as the nation counts down to the 2023 general elections’.