International Breweries Plc, a member of AB InBev, the world’s largest brewer, has celebrated its distributors and stakeholders for their support over the years. Distributors across Nigeria were hosted in Lagos last weekend, and received awards for their sterling achievements in 2021. They were also treated to world-class musical performances by RudeBoy of P-square, and Brymo. Managing Director of International Breweries Hugo Rocha hailed the distributors for their longstanding relationship and the value they have added to the business over the years. Hugo said: “We are delighted to express our appreciation to our esteemed distributors for their commitment to our diversified portfolio of brands over the past 12 months. Despite the challenges in the operating environment, the company did well and achieved many milestones that call for celebration.   Coalition promises to ensure victory for Oyetola     I’ll not let you down, Adeleke tells Timi of Ede     Four injured as PDP, APC supporters clash in Ede   “Our partnership was not built for today but for the future and, as a very ambitious organisation, keen on meeting the needs of consumers across the country, neither the International Breweries PLC nor its trade and distribution partners will rest. We are looking forward to 2022 which will be more impactful than 2021.” National Sales Director Carlos Coutinho, who acknowledged the role of distributors as strategic trade partners in the supply value chain, thanked them for staying the course ‘on this long, often challenging, but no doubt rewarding journey to building an exceptional, impactful and far-reaching brand.’ He also reiterated the company’s commitment to maintaining high standard to ensure consumers enjoy wholesome and safe products of the finest quality. “We recognise and acknowledge your efforts in reducing unemployment in the country through job creation and getting our products into the hands of the consumers who reside in the most remote areas. Our products are household names because of your support and dedication, and more than ever before, we are committed to improving our internal processes to help you achieve more.” Some of the award winners were MacDen Communications (President Award Category); J.O Ogungbola (1st runner-up); Kayomix Ltd (second runner-up) and E.U.O Communications (third runner-up).