Yetunde, wife of ailing veteran rapper Eedris Abdul Kareem, has been reported to be his kidney donor. On July 6, Abdul Kareem via his Instagram revealed he’d been diagnosed with kidney failure, seeking prayers and good wishes from Nigerians. According to the statement, the “Jaga Jaga” singer is undergoing dialysis in a hospital in Lagos with the transplant date fixed for end of the month. Though the family member wasn’t disclosed by the singer’s team, an insider claimed the wife has opted to be the donor. “The wife is donating her kidney for him. All that is left now is to get the money needed for the surgery,” the insider said. On Thursday, July 21, the rapper via his Instagram page shared details of his GoFundMe account created ‘based on requests’ to aid his medical bill.   Fresh trouble for Tambuwal, Bala, others as court axes Umahi     2023: Buhari hails APC leaders over choice of candidates     Abubakar Aliyu and the never-ending power grid collapse   He thanked everyone for the outpour of love and care he’s been receiving upon, revealing he was feeling strong and agile both in soul and body. He wrote: “Greetings my Family! This is your brother and comrade Eedris Abdulkareem of “Nigeria Jaga Jaga” fame. “Firstly, I want to extend my heartfelt thanks and appreciation to you all for the unalloyed love and care you have shown me since this sad news broke. I sincerely appreciate and love you all for this outpouring of genuine love and care. “However, based on the requests I have been receiving on the need for gofundme activities, I want to assure everyone that the activity is now on. Just click on my Instagram website for the gofundme link. “I am feeling better, strong and agile in body and soul, while awaiting the doctors summons for the surgery procedures scheduled for anytime from now. Prayers, faith and staunch belief in God’s awesome works drives me. Lakreem Management “May the Blessings of God continue to abide with you all and your respective households…Amen. Blessings…”