In commemoration of the United Nations International Day against drug abuse and illicit trafficking, the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), in collaboration with Healthgarde International, held a conference to research and address the major problems that illicit drugs represent for society. The conference, which was tagged, ‘Best approaches to drug control: The role of the entertainment industry practitioners,’ was attended by top entertainers, stakeholders as well as various law enforcement agencies. The UN World Drug Day is observed yearly to strengthen action and cooperation in achieving a world-free drug abuse. This year’s theme is “Addressing drug challenges in health and humanitarian crises.” The Chairman, NDLEA, Brig.-Gen. Buba Marwa (rtd), highlighted that there was the need for a solidarity fight against drug abuse and illicit trafficking. Gen. Marwa, who was represented by Segun Okeh, said the agency would collaborate with various subsectors of the industry to widen public awareness. “It is our wish that the entertainment industry practitioners will join NDLEA for enlightenment and fight against drug abuse. We need to appeal to the entertainment industry practitioners not to send the wrong message that has drug abuse content in your cast, script, and presentation on the screen. You must watch properly the contents while processing entertainment for the public. There is the tendency for the young mind to believe that what they see in entertainment is real,” he said.   ‘Kerosene price rose by 12.09% in June’     Dockworkers shut terminals     CAF AWARDS 2022: Oshoala may pick record fifth African …   Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Abiodun Alabi, represented by CSP Gbenga Stephen, applauded NDLEA and expressed the desire to work with the agency to curb the trending menace in the country. He pointed out that lots of committed crimes were attributable to the increase in drug abuse. The National Coordinator, NDLEA Celebrity Drug Free Club, Wilson Ighodalo, said Nigeria remains a key hub of drug trafficking and cannabis remains the most abused drug in the country. Hence, there is an urgent need for massive investment in healthcare service delivery through community intervention to address drug abuse and encourage youth participation in advocacy against the menace. For a popular comedian, Gbenga Adeyinka, NDLEA should arrest, prosecute and jail any celebrities who encourage the use of hard drugs in public or on social media. Adeyinka urged his colleagues to stop promoting drug abuse through their content in songs, videos and shows. NDLEA, Lagos State Commander, Callys Alumona, represented by the Deputy Commander, Drug Demand Reduction, NDLEA Lagos State Command, Eziaghighala Chinyerem, explained that drug abuse and trafficking is a predisposing factor to other criminal activities in the society, including armed robbery, rape, terrorism, ritual murders and other social vices. “An insecure society is not habitable for any sane individual. There is no better time than now for all stakeholders to rise and join NDLEA, the leading agency in this war to make our country a better, safe and habitable nation. All hands must be on deck to fight against this monster before it destroys our society. It is achievable if we jointly gird our loins and fight headlong using evidence-based strategies that will yield a positive result. The atmosphere is already filled with overwhelming challenges in economy and security but with determination from all fronts, resounding victory will achieve at last.” Chief Executive Officer, HealthGarde International, Lovelyn Nwarueze, spoke on the importance of natural medicine usage, urging the Nigerians to prioritise their well-being by going for drugs made with 100 per cent natural products. “At Healthgarde, we offer over 25 products for wellness, weight loss, energy, a variety of teas, preventives and unique cosmetics, etc. We are the only global wellness enterprise and multilevel marketing company founded by an African woman, a Nigerian. All our high-grade products are made in Africa – not China or America – and our networks are spreading fast across Africa and the rest of the world,” she said.