Estranged celebrity couple, Funke Akindele-Bello and Abdulrasheed Bello aka JJC Skillz were in the public eye this week, especially on social media platform. Speculations had initially made the rounds that the celebrity couple whose union was recently blessed with a pair of twins was having troubles in their marriage. It would be recalled that JJC Skillz, in April, dismissed rumours of a crisis in their marriage. However, he announced his separation from Akindele, an actress notable for her stellar performance in popular sitcom, Jenifa’s Diaries,  during the week, disclosing that their marriage had been problematic in the last two years. JJC Skillz stated that he had to move out of their home three months ago after Akindele insisted he did, and had not been able to discuss with her since the Africa Magic Viewer’s Choice Awards on May 14. Announcing their separation, JJC Skillz wrote: “Dear Friends and family, I need to let you know that Funke and I have separated. While it lasted we shared a lot of things together and have created 2 beautiful children. “The last two years had been extremely difficult for us. I know I have tried my best to fix things but I believe it is beyond repair now. “Three months ago and at Funke’s insistence, I moved out of the house and apart from AMVCA have not been able to get Funke to sit down in an amicable manner to discuss the future of our relationship. “I’m making this announcement so that the public is clear that we both are pursuing separate lives. “We still have issues that need to be addressed such as the custody and well-being of our kids, which is paramount as well as business interests which need to be disentangled but I have no doubt that these will be resolved one way or the other.” The announcement generated controversy as different narratives made the rounds on social media. Recall that the now-estranged lovebirds got married in 2016 and welcomed a set of twins in 2018. Meanwhile, Akindele is yet to make any official statement about the news of their separation, just as she has ignored several speculations regarding their troubled union.   ‘My abductors cut my long hair with machete, fearing it was…     Forty eight hours and more after PDP dared OBJ     Who is afraid of Muslim-Muslim ticket?   Funke, who is also a lawyer, is one of the most successful Nollywood actresses in contemporary times. She starred in the sitcom ‘I Need to Know’ from 1998 to 2002. She, however, rose to fame for her role in the movie titled Jenifa, which earned her the nickname Jenifa. She has hit series like Jenifa’s Diary, My Siblings and I, Aiyetoro Town and hit movies like the record-breaking Omo Ghetto: The Saga, all coming from her production company, Scene-One Production. Although Funke’s sail through the world of marriage has not been a smooth and easy one, she has forged on regardless. Recall that the 45-year-old actress was previously married to Kehinde Almaroof Oloyede but divorced in July 2013, due to irreconcilable differences. She got married to Oloyede, a Lagos-based businessman, in 2012 and the marriage lasted for only 413 days. Her ex-husband broke the news of their separation on his Facebook page. The post read: “It’s with a heavy heart that I am announcing the separation of me and my wife, Mrs Olufunke Akindele; we’ve both agreed to go our separate ways because of irreconcilable differences. We are still best friends, and we 4ever(sic) remain good friends”. Reacting, to JJC SKillz recent announcement of his separation from Akindele,  fans of the celebrity couple expressed sadness over the duo’s sweet love gone sour. Popular actor, Samuel Jemitalo, advised men against marrying women who are successful, independent and established. The movie star also warned men about women who are “social media freaks.” Also reacting, Funke’s stepson, Benito, who had on several occasions dragged his controversial step mum on social media, wrote a cryptic message. Benito has been in the public eye after he alleged that Akindele, his stepmom, was a horrible person. The 17-year-old son of the music executive and director, who had once accused his father of physical assault, gloated at the separation after the senior Bello confirmed the marriage crash in an Instagram post. Benito wrote, “I spoke the truth mehn,” under his Instagram stories.