Chief Nurudeen Oyero, a traditional spiritual leader, has declared support for the Tinubu-Shettima Muslim-Muslim ticket. The chairman of Ifa Priests in Lagos State said religion should not be allowed to tear the country apart. He noted that the competence of the candidates should be prioritised. He, however, said his association had confidence in the combination of Tinubu and Shettima to reposition the nation. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) recently announced former Borno State Governor Kashim Shettima as his running mate. Speaking at a press conference last week, Oyero urged citizens not to be prejudicial with the Muslim-Muslim ticket. He said the religion of candidates does not matter, stressing the importance of competence and know-how. Oyero, who is also a member of the Odua Peoples’ Congress (OPC) said members of the association were ready to support and vote for the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Tinubu during the forthcoming general elections.   Court gives EFCC nod to prosecute Ondo Speaker, lawmakers     Chioma Ifemeludike mocks colleagues denying alleged affairs…     UPDATED: Senate summons Emefiele over inflation, devaluation   He said: “The issue of Muslim-Muslim ticket has been generating controversy. This should not cause any problem. We should be talking about competence and not the religion of aspirants. I believe the Tinubu-Shettima combination will do wonders for the country. My association is in support of the combination, hence our votes are for them. Oyero also called on former President Olusegun Obasanjo to support Tinubu because he would succeed in changing the dwindling fortunes of the nation. His words: “We also appeal to former President Olusegun Obasanjo to support Asiwaju Bola Tinubu on his mission to make Nigeria great again. Obasanjo has been in power at critical times in Nigeria’s history and he knows the terrain. He did his best for this country. His support for Tinubu will go a long way in changing the nation positively.” While expressing support for Tinubu, he urged people not to see OPC members as miscreants or rascals. He vowed to mobilise them to vote for the former Lagos State governor. He said: “When the OPC was founded in 1998 by Fredrick Faseun, it was not for thugs and rascals. It was an organisation of decent people. People should not see the association as one for thugs.”