All eyes are on Osun State, in Southwest Nigeria, as residents head to the poll tomorrow, Saturday 16th July, to pick the helmsman for a fresh four-year tenure. The governorship poll, which is off-season from the general election cycle that falls due in February 2023, will involve 15 political parties fielding contenders for the top job. It will be the last off-season governorship to be conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) before the forthcoming general election, and it comes in the wake of similarly isolated governorships held in Anambra and Ekiti states in recent times. In a male dominated contest field, incumbent Governor Gboyega Oyetola of All Progressives Congress (APC) is seeking re-election to a second term against bids for the office by 14 other gladiators. Prominent among these are Senator Ademola Adeleke of Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), former House of Representatives Deputy Speaker Yusuf Lasun of Labour Party (LP), Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi of Accord Party and Oyegoke Omigbodun of Social Democratic Party (SDP). Oyetola and Adeleke, in particular, are old competitors. They had both tussled keenly in the 2018 election where a supplementary vote tipped the crown in favour of the incumbent. Although Adeleke initially held the lead with 254,698 votes against Oyetola’s 254,345, the poll was ruled inconclusive by INEC because the 3,498 votes outstanding in polling units where elections were cancelled because of violence exceeded the 353 votes differential between the two. Consequently, the electoral body staged a supplementary poll from which Oyetola emerged winner with a total of 255,505 votes against Adeleke’s 255,023. It was against that backdrop the electoral commission, last Tuesday, assured Osun voters that tomorrow’s election will be conclusive. Speaking at a parley with stakeholders in Osogbo, the state capital, INEC Chairman Professor Mahmood Yakubu said the commission was deploying five National Commissioners and 12 Resident Electoral Commissioners (REC) to oversee the poll. “With every election we learn lessons, and there are improvements in subsequent elections. Yes, we agree there were issues with the 2018 election, but we have learnt lessons, and that’s why we are deploying five National Commissioners and 12 RECs to support the process being handled by our state office,” Yakubu said, adding: “Let me reassure political parties, candidates and the electorate that the choice of who becomes the next governor is entirely in the hands of voters.”   Buhari: ‘Something to remember me by’     Choosing to act     Double jeopardy? Just as well!   The security aspect of the election is no less fortified. The Nigeria Police, which is the lead agency for elections security, announced the posting of Deputy Inspector-General (DIG) in charge of Force Criminal Investigation Department, Johnson Kokumo, to coordinate security operations for the poll, assisted by four Assistant Inspectors-General of Police, four Commissioners of Police, 15 Deputy Commissioners and 30 Assistant Commissioners. Police Inspector-General Usman Baba also ordered the deployment of five Armoured Personnel Carriers (APCs), three helicopters and six drones in the determination to ensure violence-free vote, according to a statement by Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi. No fewer than 21,000 police personnel will also be on hand for the election besides deployments by other security agencies. Political parties signed a peace deal late last week, and they are expected to hold their members / supporters to the spirit and letters of the pact. Besides, both INEC and security agencies involved in tomorrow’s poll will be held to expectations of better performance compared to Ekiti governorship of 18th June, which by itself was an improvement over previous elections. Voters are themselves expected to rise to their civic obligation by way of high turnout, considering that 1,479,595 persons out of the 1,955,657 registered voters in the state – representing 76 percent – have collected their PVCs ahead of the poll according to INEC. It is also expected that the menace of vote-buying that marred past elections will be contained in Osun. The police and other security agencies, including the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) were said to have deployed undercover operatives to monitor the poll and apprehend vote-buyers. All in all, the Osun poll is expected to be the best to be conducted yet by INEC.