Stakeholders have called for Nigerians to consume  good edible soya oil to get the right nutrients needed to create wealth and support the economy. They said edible oil makes the heart work well and against its (heart) diseases that kill very fast. One such is the Golden Terra Soya Oil, which has been reintroduced in the market. The “Golden Terra Soya Oil is doing so by offering 5x more Polyunsaturated Fatty Acid (PUFA) healthy fatty acid profile from edible oil.  In comparison to the 10 per cent to 11 per cent PUFA contents of some other “healthy vegetable oil” brands on the market shelf, the 62 per cent PUFA contained in Golden Terra Soya Oil gives you at least 5x more ‘good fats’ to promote a healthy heart needed to achieve your goals.’’ A nutritionist, Dr. Olaniran Olabiyi, agreed. He noted that the consumption of edible oil and food items with high PUFA content is beneficial to one’s heart. ”Whenever people visit the market to purchase edible oil, they should read the labels and see the concentration of different types of fatty acids contained therein,” he said. ”Oils that have the highest amount of polyunsaturated fatty acids should be purchased because they are friendly to the heart, compared to those that have higher levels of saturated fatty acids. People should also reduce the amount of palm oil they use in cooking because it has high levels of saturated fatty acids. ”So, what does one’s heart want? If staying healthy and maintaining optimal performance is the goal, Golden Terra Soya Oil is the edible oil that is sure to get it there. Staying 5x PUFA conscious is the key to heart-friendly meals. “As you prepare your next meal, feed your heart 5x PUFA using Golden Terra Soya Oil, the leading soya oil in the market with presence across the country. It is 100 per cent pure soya oil, sourced and manufactured in Nigeria, available in sachets, five litres, 10litres and 25 litres,” Olabiyi advised. A nutritionist in Lagos, Michael Obi, explained: “Polyunsaturated fats include omega-3 and omega-6 fats. These are essential fatty acids that the body needs for optimum brain function and heart health. Our bodies do not make essential fatty acids, so you can only get them from food.’’   UBA Dubai targets corporates, financial institutions’…     Cinetpay joins Verve International network     UBA Group: Facilitating trade finance in regional, global…   “It is an excellent choice for those looking to choose more healthy fats that the heart and body require to function. When making the decision for the best edible oil for you and your family, it is important to go for oil with a higher healthy fat content.” Also, a businesswoman, Mrs. Maureen Adewole, said she looks forward to  some healthy index when shopping for edible oil. She is one of those rooting for use of healthy edible oil, because many contain monounsaturated, polyunsaturated, and saturated fats. Continuing, Mrs. Adewole said the most important thing to check when buying oil is the amount of saturated fat. Other nutritionists said saturated fat is a dietary fat, regarded as bad or unhealthy fat. Along with trans-fat, eating lots of saturated fat can raise your cholesterol level and increase your risk of heart disease.The proportion of saturated fat in your edible oil must be very limited to achieve a healthy heart. The right oil, they said, should contain 5x more Polyunsaturated Fatty Acid – an healthy fatty acid profile from edible oil. For the stakeholders, the popular saying goes, the heart knows what it wants. And for it to keep you alive and well, your heart must get whatever it requires to function as healthily and vibrantly as any other organ of the body! The race to keep your heart healthy actually starts from a consciousness of what you consume. When you go shopping for your choice of food including edible oil, what healthy index do you look out for? Many edible oils on the market shelf contain a mix of fats, including monounsaturated, polyunsaturated, and saturated fats in varying proportions. If your aim is to buy healthy cooking oil, there are a few things that you need to check on its label to know if it is actually best for you. The most important thing to check is the amount of saturated fat. Saturated fat is a type of dietary fat, regarded as “bad” or unhealthy fat. Along with trans-fat, eating lots of saturated fat can raise your cholesterol level and increase your risk of heart disease.  So the proportion of saturated fat in your edible oil must be very limited to achieve a healthy heart. On the other hand, Polyunsaturated fats are “good” or healthy fats which help lower the bad cholesterol level and risk for heart disease. Polyunsaturated fats include omega-3 and omega-6 fats. These are essential fatty acids that the body needs for optimum brain function and heart health. Our bodies do not make essential fatty acids, so you can only get them from food. Soya bean oil is among the healthiest edible oils due to its high health-promoting polyunsaturated fat (60 per cent). It is an excellent choice for those looking to choose more healthy fats that the heart and body require to function. When making the decision for the best edible oil for you  and your family, it is important to go for oil with a higher healthy fat content.