Danny Drinkwater has opened up on the true extent of his Chelsea nightmare, which saw him brutally admit that he wasted some of the best years of his career. The 32-year-old played a pivotal role in Leicester City’s fairytale title-winning side during the 2015-16 season, before he sealed a huge £35million move to Chelsea two years later where he put pen to paper on a five-year deal. However, the big-money switch didn’t pay off for Drinkwater and the midfielder was cast aside for the majority of his time at Stamford Bridge. Drinkwater, who only made 23 appearances for the club while scoring just once, has revealed the difficulties he faced less than a month after being released by the Blues, where he talked about how he ended up drunk driving after a number of deaths in his family. ‘I’m relieved because it’s clear it wasn’t a situation that was good for me or the club,’ Drinkwater told Sky Sports when he was asked about his Chelsea exit.   Aribo, Bassey, Iwobi return to London cage     Serena @ 40: I’m still in the game     ALEX IWOBI: I want to win trophies with Everton   ‘I’m angry because of how it’s gone and how I was treated – I’m not bitter about it, you can look back and say “what ifs” and have hindsight which is obviously huge. I think it was a long time coming.’ ‘I was [suffering with mental health issues in 2019]. My nan and grandad passed, dad got diagnosed with leukemia, I lost my dog and was drunk-driving, which is just not me. I made a big mistake. I was also fighting for my son, which was going on constantly and takes its toll. ‘Can I help myself going forward? That’s why I went on loan, why I went to Aston Villa and Burnley on loan, which didn’t work, and going to Turkey at the age of 30 – I never thought I’d do that. ‘It’s also the reason I dropped down to the Championship (with Reading). I’ve been trying to do the right things. As I’ve tried doing them, something’s gone wrong.’ Drinkwater reveals he sought out therapy as a result of his Chelsea struggles and denied that he had an easy life not playing every week.