Fan Milk has commissioned its newly completed model dairy farm in Odeda, Ogun State. Fan Milk Plc is part of the Danone group, a world leading food company. This dairy farm, which is Danone’s first investment in dairy farming in Sub-Saharan Africa was commissioned by Ogun Governor Dapo Abiodun and French Ambassador Madame Emmanuelle Blatmann, in Odeda, Ogun state recently. Abiodun lauded the multimillion-dollar investment as strategically aligned with the present administration’s drive to foster relationships that enhance internally generated revenue. He said: “The growth of this project in about a year since the MOU was signed is symbolic of our administration’s commitment to public-private partnerships. “We are happy to be part of this success story. I want to assure all stakeholders that our administration will follow up and sustain its commitment to this project by continued support through the Ministry of Agriculture and all other relevant agencies, in order to make good of Fan Milk- Danone’s investment.”   Inside Nigeria’s organic fertiliser producing plant     Fan milk to commission model dairy farm in Ogun     Firm introduces Coolbox technology to Lagos butchers, others   Ferdinand Mouko, the Managing Director Fan Milk Plc, reiterated the commitment to growing with Nigeria and ensuring the company manufactures its ice cream and frozen yoghurt using milk sourced locally from cattle on the farm as well as those aggregated from local farmers at the milk collection centre. He also relayed the projected impact of the dairy farm in Ogun State, which includes empowering 100 farmers in the first year and empowering 500 farmers in the next five years and scale the number of pastoral farmers that currently benefit from Fan Milk Danone’s investment in the state. The French Ambassadrice, Madame Emmanuelle Blatmann, commended the company’s investment and reiterated France’s pride at the milestone achievement and the company’s role in opening up more avenues for bilateral relations between France and Nigeria. The Chairman of Fan Milk Plc Olayinka Akinkugbe recognised the support from the Ogun State government as an investor-friendly state that has supported Fan Milk’s response to CBN’s dairy backward integration programme. He explained the partnership is one of the major investments of Danone because of the social impact it will have on the host community by training dairy farmers in Ogun State