Constitutional lawyer and Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) Femi Falana, has said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) sued the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Accord Party (AP), Social Democratic Party (SDP), Labour Party and 12 others because it desires to be the sole contestant in all elections in Rivers State in 2023. Falana spoke after appearing in person before the Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt to represent the SDP in the case filed by the PDP. The PDP is asking the court to compel INEC not to recognise candidates from other parties especially those of the National Assembly for allegedly violating the new Electoral Act. The Presiding Judge, Justice Dalyop Pam, after hearing submissions from all parties involved, adjourned the matter till August 31 for a definite hearing. But Falana vowed to seriously take issues with the PDP insisting that the PDP’s sole motive was to contest the election unopposed. He said: “PDP sued the INEC, the Social Democratic Party and 15 members of the SDP. The sole purpose of the case is an attempt by the PDP to be the sole contestant in all elections in Rivers State in 2023. “The PDP is challenging the results of the primaries conducted by the SDP and I think the PDP is doing that to all the other political parties in Rivers State, with a view not to have an election in this state for any positions.   Ondo will deliver 80% votes for Tinubu, says ex-Speaker     APC tackles opposition lawmakers over impeachment threat     COMMUNITY SHIELD: Fireworks as Reds, Citizens clash in…   “We have not filed our objections yet, what was taken this morning by the court is our application to enter an appearance with a view to defending the case and we are going to join issues with the PDP very seriously.” The lawyer to the Accord Party, Abdullamid Mohammed (SAN), said they were querying  the locus of the suit, noting  that a political party could not challenge the activities of another party guided by a different constitution. He said: “We are even challenging their locus to file the suit. That they do not have any standing in court because a political party cannot challenge another party’s activities guided by different constitution, guided by different rules and then subsequently we filed a motion to strike out the name of the Accord because it was sued as the Accord Party, that party does not exist in Nigeria. “On one hand, we are asking the court to strike out Accord from the suit, we are challenging the jurisdiction of the suit as well on the other hand.” But the lawyer to the PDP, Dike Udenna said: “The pre-elections matter came up this morning. The one in respect of the Accord political party, they filed an application before the court to say their name is Accord, that there is no political party known as Accord Party. Therefore the name of the Accord Party should be struck out of the case. “We opposed it. We know them as the Accord Party and all the papers from INEC bear the Accord Party as their name. So, we are opposing them and have filed an application. They asked the court for an adjournment to enable them to respond to that counter affidavit which we filed. The matter has been adjourned till August 31 for hearing of the substantive case. “The one for the Social Democratic Party, Femi Falana SAN, entered appearance. He asked for an adjournment to enable him to formally file his processes. “The one for the Labour Party, they still have about two days. So it was also adjourned to August 31, to enable them file all their papers. The matters are now for hearing.”