The Federal Government has vowed to punish British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) and Trust TV for promoting terrorism and banditry. The Minister of Information and Culture Lai Mohammed announced this on Thursday. In separate documentaries, Trust TV and BBC Africa Eye exposed the activities of the bandits. But reacting to the documentaries, the Minister said the conduct of the two media houses were unprofessional as they tend to promote terror. The Minister condemned Trust Tv for using its platform to interview a bandit kingpin, Shehu Rekeb, thereby promoting activities of terrorists. He also condemned the BBC for not upholding the same standards and tenets as they would have done in the UK. He contended both platforms by their actions had become accomplices to terrorists and bandits in the name of reporting. The Minister said the appropriate regulatory body is already looking at the infractions and appropriate sanctions will be meted to both platforms.   CSO makes case for seniority in picking new Accountant…     We’re not aware of such plans, says Education Ministry’s…     Four injured as NURTW, NDLEA operatives clash in Osogbo park   “There is a regulatory body regulating broadcasting which is the Nigeria Broadcasting Commission (NBC) and they are also aware of these two incidents. “They are looking at which part of the Broadcasting Code that have been violated by the BBC and Trust TV. “Media is the oxygen that terrorists and bandits use to breath. “When otherwise reputable platforms like BBC can give their platform to terrorists showing their faces as if they are Nollywood stars, it is unfortunate. “I want to assure them that they will not get away with it, appropriate sanctions will be meted to both the BBC and the Trust Tv,’’ he said. On sanctioning the BBC, a foreign medium, the Minister said: “Let me assure you that they will not get away with the naked glorification of terrorism and banditry in Nigeria. “If they are not registered in Nigeria and they are only sending their signals to Nigeria, we will ask them to stop sending the signal. “I know that during the IRA days, the BBC will not dare do what they are doing now in Nigeria. “It is because there is a country called Nigeria that they are operating here.’’