Despite COVID-19 pandemic shocks, global air travel is beginning to show serious signs of rebound as the air travel market estimated at $332.9 billion in 2020 is projected to reach a revised size of $744 billion by 2026. The global market for airlines, industry data have shown, is growing at a cumulative annual growth rate (CAGR) of 12.7 per cent in the forecast period. Investigations show that the projected growth in the post COVID-19 period will be led by connectivity, aircraft automation, global affluence, immersive worlds, jet propulsion advancement, fluid formats, new energy aircraft, healthy habitats, and hyper-personalisation with emphasis on the future of flying. Other triggers, the study reveals, suggest that  passengers are expected to tailor their experience to meet more specific needs. Passengers, the study also adds,  will be prioritising the space requirements, entertainment, and service over buying a first or business class ticket. The study indicates  that  there  will be a need to package the consumer experience differently and make significant changes to the prevailing system, realising the need  for smart cabin components with integrated sensors , which are expected to play a decisive role in revamping the way passengers interact with the environment. Another determining factor, the study shows, includes   receptive and responsible cabin adaptations to the dynamic passenger`s expectations pointing to  comfort, ambiance, intelligent seats, and activity areas. The study indicates that there will be continued use of technology to understand consumer behaviour and preferences to  implement customisations onboard in a seamless fashion.   Strengthen cybersecurity to remain safe, CBN urges OFIs     Marie Tecnimont supports Nigeria’s development     Arden & Newton, Ford Foundation inaugurate report   Passenger airlines, one of the segments of air travel activity, is projected to grow at a 15.2 per cent  CAGR to reach $587.8 billion by the end of the analysis period. The Freight Airline’s  segment is readjusted to a revised 6.7 per cent  CAGR for the next  seven-year period. This segment accounts for a 34.2 per cent  share of the global airlines market. The airlines market in the U.S. is estimated at $79.8 billion in the year 2021. The country accounts for a 18.79 per cent  share in the global market. China, the world’s second largest economy, is forecast to reach an estimated market size of $142.8 billion in the year 2026 trailing a CAGR of 15.9 per cent  through the analysis period. Among the other noteworthy geographic markets include :  Japan and Canada, each forecast to grow at 9.7 percent  and 10 percent  respectively over the analysis period. Within Europe, Germany is forecast to grow at approximately 11.7 percent CAGR while the rest of the European market will reach $148 billion by the close of the analysis period. The Global Freight Sector segment is estimated at $113.6 billion in 2020  is projected to reach $170.6 billion by 2026 reflecting a compounded annual growth rate of 6.7 percent  over the analysis period. Europe constitutes the largest regional market for the Freight segment, accounting for 24.5 percent  of the global sales in 2020. China is poised to register the fastest compounded annual growth rate of 8.8 percent  over the analysis period, to reach $26.3 billion by the close of the analysis period.