The Ibidunni Ighodalo Foundation (IIF) has announced the third cycle of Project 40at40 in furtherance of its annual In-Vitro Fertilisation (IVF) grant. Project 40at40 was born upon the demise of the Late Mrs. Ibidunni Ituah-Ighodalo, whose birthday wish was to give 40 IVF grants to 40 couples on her 40th birthday. The initiative is a posthumous realisation of the founder’s wish with her husband, Pastor Ituah Ighodalo, championing the cause to ensure the dream is fulfilled. The project, in its third year, customarily starts on Ibidunni’s posthumous birthday anniversary – July 19, 2022.   Court rules today on Oyo deputy governor’s impeachment     Delta APC chief: Nigeria will be great again under Tinubu     Appeal Court didn’t order sub-licensing, says…   The foundation, in collaboration with renowned fertility medical partners, have administered IVF treatments to 80 recipients since inception. Beneficiaries of the first and second cycle have resulted in 10 babies, with many others currently undergoing their gestation period. At a news conference at the Elizabeth R office in Ikoyi yesterday, Chairman of the Foundation, Pastor Ituah Ighodalo, said: “We are glad to announce that for the maiden cycle in 2020, we had nine new births, including a set of triplets. For the year 2021, we have a baby already; and nine pregnancies, while four are still undergoing treatment.” Pastor Ighodalo also announced the foundation’s new initiatives ‘Ibidunni Life Store’ and ‘Ibidunni Ighodalo Entrepreneurial Network’, a mentoring and digital learning platform for the young to inspire, engage and equip aspiring entrepreneurs on self-leadership, entrepreneurship, and the benefits of creating wealth the right way. Executive Secretary of the foundation Grace Ogunniyi said the registration portal will be open on July 19, and called for support. “We are hoping to have more babies from the 2021 set and, for this new cycle, we’ll like people to also partner with us financially and we are grateful to those who have supported us so far.”