President Muhammadu Buhari has mourned the death of one-time Minister of State for Power and Steel, Chief Oyekunle Oluwasanmi. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the President condoled with the Oluwasanmi family of Ipetu Ijesa, Osun State, on the loss of their beloved father and grandfather, Chief Oluwasanmi, who died at 85. The President noted the contributions of Chief Oluwasanmi to the service to his fatherland, as an Area Administrator with the Nigerian Customs Service, member, Committee for States and Local Governments creation that birthed the six states in 1996, and his appointment as Minister of State for Power and Steel the same year. He was also Chairman of the Board of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). According to the President: “Chief Oluwasanmi, the renowned technocrat, administrator and highly respected community leader, continued to participate actively in faith-based organisations and social community development after his public life, stressing the essence of togetherness and strong family values.” He prayed that God Almighty will repose the soul of the former Minister and comfort family, friends and associates at this time.   Fresh trouble for Tambuwal, Bala, others as court axes Umahi     2023: Buhari hails APC leaders over choice of candidates     Maritime workers, NARTO shelve planned strike   The Federal Executive Council (FEC), in a statement by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha, mourned the former Minister. “The Federal Executive Council mourns the death of the former Minister of State for Power and Steel, Chief Oyekunle Oluwasanmi, who died yesterday. “Chief Oluwasanmi was appointed Minister of State for Power and Steel in 1997 under the administration of late Gen. Sani Abacha. During this period, the deceased embarked on a wide range of reforms in the nation’s power and steel sector. “Before the appointment, Chief Oluwasanmi was also Customs and Excise Area Administrator for the Tincan Island and Calabar Ports besides serving on several boards and commissions. “FEC commiserates with the Government and the People of Osun State, his immediate family, friends and associates and prays to God to grant eternal repose to the soul of the deceased”, the statement said.