The late Secretary-General of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), Muhammad Barkindo, was yesterday laid to rest in Yola, the Adamawa State capital. Barkindo was buried in Yola, Yola South Local Government Area. The Lamido Adamawa, Dr. Muhammadu Barkindo Mustafa; Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister Muhammad Musa Bello; Secretary to the Adamawa State Government (SSG), Malam Bashiru Ahmad were among dignitaries, who attended Barkindo’s funeral prayers. Governor Ahmadu Fintiri who is currently outside the country, sent his condolences through his Press Secretary, Humwashi Wonosikou. “His (Barkindo) demise is a sad day for me and the people of Adamawa and Nigeria. I extend, on behalf of the people and government of Adamawa State, my heartfelt sympathies and condolences to the immediate family, NNPC, OPEC, the people and government of Adamawa State, over the death of the historic Secretary General of OPEC,” the statement said.   The man Barkindo Until his death, Barkindo was the 28th Secretary-General of OPEC. He assumed the office on August 1, 2016. He previously served as Acting Secretary-General of OPEC in 2006. He was due to complete his second tenure later this month before handing over to Mr. Haitham Al Ghais, a veteran of the Kuwait Petroleum Corporation (KPC). A colossus in the global oil and gas industry, the late Barkindo represented Nigeria on OPEC’s Economic Commission Board from 1993 to 2008, before becoming the Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (GMD/CEO) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation from 2009 to 2010. In 1991, he headed the country’s technical delegation to the United Nations climate negotiations beginning in 1991. Born on April 20, 1959 in Yola. Barkindo completed his Bachelor’s degree in political science from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, in 1981 and Master of Business Administration (MBA) degree from Southeastern University (Washington, D.C., U.S.), in 1991. Prior to his MBA, in 1988, he earned a postgraduate Diploma in Petroleum Economics from Oxford University. Also, he was awarded honorary doctorate from Federal University of Technology Yola.   Tributes President Muhammadu Buhari, who had earlier on Tuesday received Barkindo in Abuja, expressed sadness over his death, saying: “Nigeria has lost a huge national asset with Barkindo’s death.” In a statement by his spokesman, Femi Adesina, Buhari paid tribute to the remarkable gentleman and enormous national asset, who from his youthful days worked meritoriously in the service of the nation in various national and international capacities and never stopped being a beacon of light to the country he loved until his last breath. The President said Barkindo’s undeniable brilliance and legacies as a dedicated public servant will remain a reference point in the oil and gas industry, international development and the environment sector.   Fed Govt: petrol scarcity will linger until full…     Kuje prison: 64 Boko Haram suspects escape after attack     Kuje: Day terrorists wreaked havoc   He recalled that his profound decency and mien greatly endeared him to Nigerians and other nationals who came in direct contact with him as a young Principal Administrative Officer with the Nigeria Mining Corporation; Special Assistant to the Minister of Mines, Power and Steel as well as Minister of Petroleum Resources; and later in his 24 years of service in the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation; Nigerian Delegate to OPEC Ministerial Conferences; Nigeria’s Governor for OPEC; and leader of Nigeria’s technical delegations to the climate change negotiations since inception in 1991 that produced the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Kyoto Protocol to the UNFCCC. The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, expressed sadness over the death of Barkindo. Lawan in a statement by his Special Adviser (Media), Ola Awoniyi, described the sudden death of Barkindo as tragic. Lawan described Barkindo’s leadership of the global oil cartel as exemplary, noting that the deceased worked assiduously to build cooperation between OPEC and non-OPEC countries to save the energy market at a time of a global crisis. He said Barkindo’s pragmatic approach and hard work at the critical time brought stability to the volatile oil market. In similar vein, OPEC, in mourning Barkindo, described him as “the much-loved leader of the OPEC Secretariat and his passing is a profound loss to the entire OPEC Family, the oil industry and the international community.” Nigeria’s Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, described the passing away as a “great loss to Nigeria, to OPEC, to the energy sector and most compassionately to his family which we have in our prayers and thoughts. Nigeria has been thrown into mourning,” he said. Also, Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC), Mr Mele Kyari, who had announced Barkindo’s demise on his twitter handle, described it as “a great loss to his immediate family, the NNPC, our country Nigeria, the OPEC and the global energy community.” The President, Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), Mr Chinedu Okoronkwo, said Barkindo distinguished himself as a global energy leader. “On behalf of IPMAN, I want to commiserate with OPEC, the Nigerian government and the oil and gas industry on the demise of the beloved OPEC secretary general. I pray that God will grant his immediate family and the entire industry the fortitude to bear this great loss, “Okoronkwo said. The Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC), CEO, Gbenga Komolafe, prayed for the late OPEC boss’ family while asking God to grant him external rest. “I must say that goes to show the futility of life. For me it was one of the most shocking and sad news that I have ever experienced,” Komolafe said. Also, the Northern Governors Forum expressed shock and sadness over Barkindo’s sudden demise. Chairman of the Forum and Governor of Plateau State Simon Bako Lalong in a statement said the Forum received with shock the death of the OPEC Secretary General who was on official duties in Nigeria when his death occurred. Lalong said the Northern Governors Forum is proud of his achievements and support towards the passage of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), and exploration of oil and gas prospects across various parts of the country including the Northern Region.   Story By Muyiwa Lucas, John Ofikhenua, Sanni Onogu, Abuja, Onimisi Alao, Yola and Kolade Adeyemi, Jos