The OISA Foundation continues to carry on with the legacy of the late Oba Oladele Olashore with its service to humanity. It remains committed to the needs of indigent school children, the vulnerable and students in tertiary institutions in the country. TOSIN ODUNEWU reports. The late Owaloko of Iloko Ijesa, Osun State, Oba Oladele Olashore must be smiling in his grave with his children sustaining his legacy of lifting indigent children, students, ensuring justice and creating opportunities for the less privileged, among others. One of such students is Samson Adams, son of a peasant farmer who was given a scholarship at Olashore International School. He graduated in 2019. He is a 300-Level  Economics student at Pan Atlantic University, Lekki-Epe. With his Cumulative Grade Point Average of 4.90, he also enjoys a scholarship in the institution. Thus, it was little surprise when the OISA Foundation organised a 10th memorial lecture to honour the deceased monarch. The lecture attracted eminent personalities such as the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo (represented by Dapo Akinosun, SAN), Ambassador Shehu Malami; Founder, Fate Foundation, Mr. Fola Adeola; former Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Chief Joseph Sanusi, Prince Julius Adelusi Adeluyi, among others. Daughter of the deceased, Mrs. Olapeju Shofowora, paid tribute to Oba Olashore for his commitment to service and for using his resources and influence to get things done at the National, State, local and community levels. “Kabiyesi was so many things to different people as he championed one cause or another for diverse people seeking him out in lloko, enabling access to justice, creating opportunities and employment for all and sundry,” she said. She said the occasion also gave them the avenue  to showcase what Oba Olashore stood for, accomplished and how they(his children)  have carried on with his legacy. Osinbajo, in his keynote address, admitted that a new leadership culture was needed in the country, adding that leadership was not  the exclusive preserve of a  privileged few. He said: “We cannot continue like before. We need a new culture of leadership in the country.We must limit leadership from encumbrances that affected it. Leadership is service. Service to others doesn’t diminish us, it enriches us. Service is a revolutionary act. Leaders don’t fall from the sky. “Leadership is a character, it is not only within the purview of the privileged.” The VP noted that the life and legacy of Oba Olashore provides a template for leadership through his strides in education and other areas.   Oko Poly: Row over ASUP strike, fee hike     2023 Election: Youths and social media     ASUU strike: Students, parents in dilemma over rent renewal   “The life and legacy of Oba Olashore provides a clear template for leadership. “There are over a 100 children without prior access to quality education, who today stand on the knowledge and exposure gained, as beneficiaries of your scholarships and projects, to reach for a better life. A great majority of them will go on to change the world they live in and lift up many others. And they will never forget the example you have set for them. Oba Olashore will be proud,” he said. Osinbajo, who extolled the virtues of the late monarch, lauded the  OISA Foundation for continuing  his legacies with commitment. The monarch’s constitute the Board of Trustees of the foundation. In his lecture entitled: “Public service as the best form of service: The example of Oba Oladele Olashore,” Adeola chided public office holders and aspirants for their lack of commitment  to public good. “There is too little service, too little commitment to the public good in our public office holders and aspirants,and it is a failing that all of us are complicit in enabling. Because of it, it is no wonder that our society continues to be eluded by the dawn it so desperately needs,” he said. He lauded Oba Olashore for his dedication to true service, adding that leaders should emulate him. “Oba Olashore cared about education, particularly, quality secondary education, and, beyond just caring, he set up a secondary school that offer scholarships to young people who would otherwise have been unable to afford such an education. In their lives, and the lives of everybody, each of those children goes on to impact, he defies death. Olashore cared about his people and his heritage. His legacy has remained undimmed by his transition,” he said. Adeola stressed the need to imbibe the spirit of true public service, like  the late Oba Olashore. According to him, such elevates the cause over the servant, and the public good over the interests of a few, and by its very nature lends itself to continuity. Sanusi described the late monarch as a great and selfless leader. While paying tribute to Oba Olashore, he said: “We worked together in CBN, we became friends. Oba Olashore was a good leader, he provided excellent leadership. One thing that struck me about him was that,he was always thinking in the interest of others. He was courageous and highly respected because of his performance. He was a remarkable leader by all standards.”