THE Professional Statisticians Society of Nigeria (PSSN) has decried the poor usage of statistical data by the country’s tiers of government. Its President, Prof. Olanrewaju Ismail Shittu, at the association’s international conference at Yaba College of Technology, Yaba, Lagos, noted that the country is where it is because of the leaders’disdain for planning with accurate data and listening to wise counsel of professional statisticians. He said: “We need data to plan. We need an accurate and proper analysis of data to make projections. Most of the time, we rely on statistics. The issue is that we don’t have very reliable statistics in society. The problem is that the governments of Nigeria, over the years, have not been listening to us when we tell them what to do, and what data is saying. “We cannot speak on behalf of data. We must allow data to speak.  By the time we enter raw data and use the appropriate methodology and scientific methodology to analyse, data will speak. But our government will want to change and thwart the data. Look at what is usually represented as statistics every month, particularly as regards the inflation issue.” On whether there was any relationship between the body and the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics, the PSSN chief said: “The relationship we have with the Bureau of Statistics is not very strong. We are a professional statistical society. We tell the government the truth about what the data says. Our colleagues in other departments or other areas of study bring data to us and when we tell them what the data is saying, they do not often quite agree with us, suggesting that we tweak the data to what they want. “The government has over time played on people’s ignorance of statistics. Our relationship with NBS is not that strong because they avoid patronising the professionals in statistics.”   ‘How we are combining education with vocational skills’     Bankers, academics to assess governance at book launch     ‘We should refocus education system towards STEM’   On why the society was established, Shittu said the idea was mooted by a wide spectrum of researchers in statistics across the country, who noticed that there had not been a formidable platform for researchers in the country’s universities, research institutes, and polytechnics to share the findings of their completed and on-going research to colleagues, the industry and the general public. “It was established at the University of Ibadan on August 12, 2016, with the sole aim of promoting research, to advance statistical research and its application in Nigeria and outside world, for publishing of statistical journals and other similar publications, to cooperate/affiliate with similar bodies like the society both locally and internationally, to advance statistical knowledge through collaboration, and by supporting research activities and to disseminate statistical research findings as widely as possible for the benefit of decision-makers, policy advisers, industrialists, funders and the users of statistics, among others,” he asserted. The PSSN National Secretary, Prof. Waheed Babatunde Yahya of the University of Ilorin, said where data are poorly collected and analysed, one “can imagine what will be the end result – poor results, poor projections.” “That is the problem we are having turned back years of progress. During the period of the pandemic, he noted that it was timely use of data and statistics that proved to be critical in understanding, managing, and mitigating the human, social and economic impacts of the outbreak. Director-General of Nigerian Institute of Medical Research, Yaba, Lagos, Prof. Babatunde Lawal Salako, said changing contours of the global landscape will increase sharply the demand for higher quality and more comprehensive statistics from both the private and public sectors. He said this must be accompanied by sound analysis in order to draw the implications.