The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has expressed satisfaction with the judgment of the Appeal Court affirming Senator Ademola Adeleke as the rightful candidate of the PDP in Saturday’s Osun governorship election. In a statement on Wednesday shortly after the Appeal Court judgement, the party said the judgement was a further validation of the will and aspiration of the people of Osun State which they overwhelmingly expressed during the election. A rival PDP governorship aspirant, Mr. Dotun Babayemi, had challenged Adeleke’s emergence as PDP candidate in a primary election conducted by the leadership of the PDP. Babayemi had emerged winner in a parallel primary election conducted by his faction and had insisted on being the rightful candidate of the party. A lower court in Osogbo, the Osun State capital had earlier thrown out Babayemi’s case. He had challenged the lower court’s ruling at the Court of Appeal.   Senate passes Electricity Bill     Seven Nigerian celebrities with honorary doctorate degrees     COEASU extends strike by three weeks   The statement, signed by the spokesman for the PDP, Debo Ologunagba, said the judgement has put to rest all contestations regarding the validity of Adeleke’s candidacy. The statement reads: “The judgment is a firm confirmation that the Osun State governorship primary was transparently conducted by the Sen. Dr. Iyorchia Ayu-led National Working Committee (NWC) in strict compliance with the provisions of the PDP Constitution and Electoral Guidelines as provided by the Electoral Act and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended). “Our party commends the Judiciary for its courage, adding that the judgment has further restored the confidence of Nigerians on our judicial system and the processes of the PDP”. The PDP congratulated the people of Osun State and charged party stakeholders in the state to remain united behind Sen. Ademola Adeleke. The party expressed confidence in the capacity to and determination to institute a transparent, people-oriented and development-based government that will rebuild and revamp Osun State.