Through its National Publicity Secretary Felix Morka, the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday hit at opposition lawmakers who issued a threat to initiate an impeachment process against President Muhammadu Buhari in six weeks’ time over insecurity. The ruling party said the lawmakers merely played to the gallery by seeking to score cheap political scores with an issue as important as security. According to it, the action of the opposition lawmakers was to distract the government. It said the minority lawmakers missed the point by thinking the removal of President Buhari would end insurgency. The APC spokesman in  a chat with The Nation wondered while the opposition lawmakers failed to pass a resolution to removed Dr. Goodluck Jonathan who held the forte as President when insurgency was at its infancy. Morka said: “If the impeachment of the President could end insecurity, the minority lawmakers, who were in the majority under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ought to have sacked the then President whose administration birthed insurgency.   Rivers PDP wants to be sole contestant in 2023 –…     Ondo will deliver 80% votes for Tinubu, says ex-Speaker     COMMUNITY SHIELD: Fireworks as Reds, Citizens clash in…   “If they are so desirous of an end to insecurity, they ought to have passed a resolution to condemn attacks by Boko Haram fighters on innocent Nigerians. The war against insecurity is not for the ruling party, it is battle that must be supported by all patriots. “Those hiding in the forests to cause unrest are not partisan in the perpetuation of their evil acts. They are killing Nigerians and regrettably, soldiers who risk their lives to protect the society. “Where is the empathy from the minority lawmakers? Those gallant men who are attacked on the war front are Nigerians, husbands and fathers. Instead of showing empathy, they are busy playing politics. “If they feel convinced that removing the President is the solution, this ought to have been done before this administration came into office.” Morka said the lawmakers showed no political maturity by attempting to distract a government from mobilising against the identified enemy of the country. “The government will not fall for that distraction by the opposition lawmakers. The current government is committed to the protection of the lived of all Nigerians irrespective of their political leanings.”