The Lagos State government yesterday said it would continue to create an enabling environment for cooperative societies to thrive in the state and develop effective partnerships to attain their respective goals. Its Commissioner for Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives, Dr. Lola Akande, stated this at a media programme to commemorate the International Day of Cooperatives (IDC) in Alausa, Lagos. Akande said the government recognised the significance of cooperative Societies, as associations and enterprises through which citizens could effectively improve their lives while contributing to the economic, social, cultural and political advancement of their communities, state and nation. “Government recognises that the Cooperative Movement is highly democratic, locally autonomous but internationally integrated. “Consequently, the government seeks to create an environment in which Cooperative Societies can participate on an equal footing with other forms of enterprise and develop an effective partnership to achieve their goals,” she said. According to her, to achieve this objective, the state government is concerned with providing and ensuring the sustenance of an enabling environment for the development of the cooperative movement.   ‘57% of electricity consumers on estimated…     70% of world’s 1.4 billion people living in extreme…     UK group seeks reduction in remittance cost   She added that a robust partnership between the state government and Cooperative Movement was germane to the growth of the Sector. However, Akande noted that the government is celebrating this year’s International Day of Cooperatives (IDC) in a week-long celebration, which commenced on Tuesday and ends  on Sunday. She said the IDC is an occasion where people are educated on issues of concern, to mobilize political will and resources to address global problems, and to celebrate and reinforce achievements of humanity. The commissioner stated that the theme of this year’s celebration, “Cooperatives: Build a Better World,” is tailored toward the main field of action of the United Nations, such as the maintenance of International peace and security, promotion of sustainable development, protection of human rights, and the guarantee of international law and humanitarian action. She added that the theme is about human-centered business model, which is an innovative sustainable business ecosystem that provided tools and inputs to the private sector, public authority and consumers when developing new businesses. Akande said activities lined up to mark the event would include the inauguration of  Community Water Borehole project in Alimosho, Ogba and Agege on Thursday; Jumaat Service at the Alausa Central Mosque on Friday from 1.00pm while there will be sporting activities the same day among other activities.