These are interesting and intriguing times in Nigeria. Taking into cognizance, insecurity, the Federal Government’s effort seems not ameliorating or alleviating the sordid situation virtually in all regions of Nigeria. Is it that our police and armed forces are overwhelmed or overstretched? Travelling within states and outside one’s state now requires that one prays and calculates his or her time of departure very well as  the individual  is unsure of her safety not sure what may befall you on the road, you have to pray and take precaution before embarking on your trip.. Do we not have, as a country, simple technology that could detect these miscreants where they are in the forests and through intelligence gathering decapitate them before they could strike? Erstwhile Governor of Lagos, Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola, SAN, now Minister of Works and Housing resorted to this security strategy and incapacitated many arm robbery incidences before they could strike; or even when they struck, as they were about sharing their loot, they were apprehended. This is one power of intelligence gathering that all states’ governors need to resort to at a time like this. In essence, governors need to invest more in special security units of the police to make this happen in every state. There was a time in Lagos, under Fashola, that armed robbers had to relocate to neighbouring states to ply their nefarious trade because adopted security strategy checkmated and crippled their callous activities. There was this related incident that is worth torch lighting regarding the recent outburst of Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State. There was this incident that took place in a Kenya’s government forest reserve involving a man named Moses. Moses and his friend were herding their cattle through a government reserve when out of the blues, a ferocious lion charged at Moses’ friend. Moses could not stand and watch helplessly for his  friend to be hunted and hacked down by the big cat, he tried to defend his friend, The lion would take none of such seeming nonsense and he made for Moses; he however outsmarted the big cat in a smooth and swift manner. He attacked the lion with his sharp and soldierly spear which went through the eye, and in ihe process, penetrated the brain of the animal. The lion fell down at Moses’ feet. By Kenya’s law it is illegal to attack and kill a lion, more so in a forest reserve. The government’s forest guards went for Moses saying he should have reported first and not taken the law into his hands, Pray, was there any safe time span to report when the ferocious lion was about devouring two men? Is the life of an animal worth much more than homo sapiens? Ademola Adegbamigbe writing on the Zamfara’s saga, in the PM News edition of 29th June 2022, compared the sore and sordid situation to the episode aforementioned well repotted story that was even reported in the global magazine, the Times of London, stated simply and squarely. in his own words: “It is analogous to when a lion wants to kill a man in a government forest reserve where hunting or poaching is outlawed. He must choose between obeying the law of not killing the big cat or ending in its belly. The law of nature will make him instinctively choose the former.”   Ekiti 2022: BAO’s Benign Beats!     APC Presidential Primary: Buhari, not Tinubu, is the winner!     Ekiti Decides 2022: Oyebanji outsmarting opponents?   The whole country was jolted when the man in the saddle of government in Zamfara State, Governor Bello Matawalle directed able men in the state to rise up and carry arms to defend themselves in the face of escalating attacks by bandits and terrorists rampaging his people. He was not the first to do this as the governor of the homestate of President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor Aminu Bello Maisamari had earlier made this cold and clarion call. The government went further to advise its citizens who wish to have arms to apply for the permit. However, in a swift reaction, both the Chief of Defense Staff, General Lucky Irabor, and the Zamfara’s Commissioner of Police, Elkanah Ayuba, rebuffed this directive. This outburst is nothing short of seeming mutiny coming from the man in the saddle in Zamfara. Even though the governor of any state in Nigeria is referred to as the chief security officer, he has no control over the police or the armed forces. The General was plain on this stating that such a directive could only come from the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, Mr. President. In the same vein, Zamfara State Commissioner of Police wasted no time in responding to the apparently illegal directive of Matawalle, by stating that he has no power to grant license to anyone. In any case, there is an existing ban on acquisition of arms making the directive dead on arrival! Afenifere, the Yoruba socio-cultural group, condemned Matawalle’s directive for able men in the state to carry arms, referring to it as a sign of a failing and floundering government. It is easy for someone or group to castigate the steps taken by Governor Bello Matawalle, if you are not wearing his shoes. He, definitely, knows where the shoe pinches. Having lost several people to banditry and terrorism, there are others recent killings and kidnapping in Tsafe, the hometown of the state Commissioner of Security and Home Affairs, retired DIG Mamman Ibrahim Tsafe. In the attack targeted at Tsafe, the son of the commissioner and two others were killed when the security forces engaged the terrorists in gun battle. It is on record that many have been killed or abducted on their farms in recent times. It is instructive to pinpoint the slogan of Zamfara in this essay: ‘Farming is our pride.’ Life has been miserable for farmers in the state, even in this planting season! However, the people of Zamfara must survive! Apart from the call to carry arms, there are some laudable steps that Matawalle’s government took. Recently, the state’s House of Assembly passed a bill for the prohibition and punishment for banditry, cattle rustling, cultism, kidnapping, terrorism and other incidental offences. Once, the bill reached the table of Matawalle, it was instantly accented to, thereby making it a law in the state. In a dynamic response to the menace of these callous men, other sagacious strategic steps were taken by the Matawalle led government of Zamfara. There was the inauguration of four committees on security matters. He went further by providing 20 brand new Hilux vehicles and 1,500 motorbikes for the commencement of this laudable operation. The committees are: Special Committee on Intelligence Gathering on Banditry; Management Committee on Operations of the Community Protection Guards (CPG); Committee on Prosecution of Banditry Related Offences; and State Security Standing Committee. One may ask rhetorically: is the state governor really the chief security officer of his state? No governor, within Nigeria’s context, can issue any directive to the police or the armed forces. Our constitution is definitely defective. Are we really running true federalism in Nigeria? Earlier, the Chairman of Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF). Dr. John Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, in an interview on Arise TV clamoured for a state police. In addition, the Southern Governors’ Forum under the leadership of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, repeated the same call in a communique released last year at Asaba. One may ask: What is the National Assembly doing to bring up something on this in concrete terms? Even though Afenifere, the Yoruba social cultural group, initially castigated Matawalle’s call to bear arms, the group made it saliently and succinctly clear that state police will solve this incessant and nagging insecurity in the states. In concluding, it was as if Matawalle was ready for any counter move from the centre as he insisted there is no going back on his directive. According to the helmsman in Zamfara: “self-defence is a natural instinct and has always been part of human survival strategy.” He based his insistence on the Fire Arms Act saying everything that his government would do will be within the ambit of the law. Matawalle’s stand and stake is that many have not taken into consideration the precarious plight “of the innocent people who are maimed, killed, and kidnapped every day in various parts of the state,” In any case, in his own perspective, there is no difference between the Civilian Joint Task Force (JTF) in Borno State and the Amotekun in the Southwest of Nigeria. Does this provide a veritable time for our legal luminaries to interrogate the Fire Arms Act and under what conditions citizens cannot be denied access to bearing arms even when they applied formally? In this columnist’s perspective, it is worth the inquisitive eyes of patriotic legal luminaries backed up by Civil Society Organizations (CSOs).