The National Pension Commission (PenCom) has warned employers under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) not to choose or force a Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) on an employee. It however commended employers for their roles in the scheme. PenCom Director-General Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar, in a statement, said though the employers were critical to the success of the CPS, they must note that there are sanctions for shirking their responsibilities. She said: “It is not the employer’s responsibility to choose or force a PFA on an employee. Similarly, employers who fail to make the remittances of their employees’ pension contributions within the stipulated time must pay such contributions with an interest penalty.” The PenCom boss said the birth of the CPS was to solve the challenges of the Defined Benefit Scheme (DBS), which was unfunded and left retirees without any income in their old age. “The CPS, therefore, brought hope for a sustainable retirement plan that provides timely and adequate income for retirees. As the name suggests, the CPS is a contributory scheme under which both the employer and the employee contribute toward the payment of the employee’s retirement benefits. The PRA 2014 defines the roles and responsibilities of the employer and the employee under the CPS. The CPS applies to everyone who works in the Public Service of the Federation, the Federal Capital Territory, states or local governments and the private sector. “For employers in the private sector, their employees must enroll in the CPS as long as they have three or more employees, irrespective of the nature of the employment – contract, permanent or casual employment. Therefore, employers must understand their responsibilities to employees under the CPS. Contribute for their employees   PTAD complaints and solutions     Pension complaints and solutions     Noor Takaful Insurance pays policyholders N109m cashback   The employer is mandated by the PRA 2014 to contribute a minimum of 10 per cent of the employee’s total monthly emoluments to the Retirement Savings Account (RSA) of the employee. On the other hand, the employee must contribute 8 percent of his monthly emoluments. However, an employer is at liberty if he wishes to bear responsibility for contributions. In addition, the employer may agree to payment of additional benefits. Deduct employee’s contributions It is the responsibility of the employer to deduct the employee’s pension at source after paying salaries. Remit Pension Contributions Section 11 (3) of the PRA 2014 requires an employer to deduct the employee’s monthly contribution and remit along with his contributions to the RSA of the employee no later than seven working days after salaries have been paid. A schedule must accompany the remittance of pension contributions, which is paid to the Pension Fund Custodian (PFC) of the designated Pension Fund Administrator (PFA). Procure a group life policy for his employees The employer bears the costs of procuring a group life policy for his employees, which is separate from the pension contributions paid by the employer to each employee’s RSA. The value of the group life policy is three times the total yearly emoluments of the employee, and the premium shall be paid no later than the commencement date of the cover. Open a nominal account for employees yet to open RSA The employer should open a nominal account with any PFA for an employee who did not open an RSA and remit his portion of pension contributions to the nominal RSA. Once the employee opens an RSA and gives the employer the details, the employer must instruct the PFA to transfer the balance in the nominal RSA to the employee’s RSA.