Boston Consulting Group (BCG) has predicted about $30 trillion issuances in bond and equity allocations for asset managers in the next four years. In a report, the leading global management consulting firm, said much of the assets will be  front-loaded over the next few years as more investments flow into climate-transition projects. It said revenue from alternative assets such as private equity, hedge funds, and real estate assets will grow to more than half of the global revenue in the next five years. This is according to report 20th BCG’s yearly study of the assets industry entitled:  Global Asset Management 2022: From Tailwinds to Turbulence, emerging trends that are expected to shape the future include an increasing shift of portfolios into alternative assets in the pursuit of higher returns compared to publicly-traded markets. Alternative products represented more than 40 per cent of total asset management revenue in 2021, despite comprising less than 20 per cent of global Asset under Management. This trend is expected to continue over the next five years, with revenue from alternatives forecast to grow to more than half of all global revenue in the industry by 2026. “Over the next five years, we expect the revenue from alternatives to grow to more than half of all global revenues, thanks in large part to the fees that alternative assets command,” the report stated.   SecureID Group lauds Lagos on Residents Card re-launch     ‘Over 90% of telecom operators risk extinction’     Report: Binance controls 47% crypto trading   Moreover, with $100 trillion to $150 trillion in capital deployment required to reach net-zero goals by 2050, demand for sustainable investments represents an opportunity that will dominate the sector in both the short and long term. Partner/Managing Director in BCG Nigeria,  Stefano Niavas, said: “Africa’s economy continues to be attractive to private capital investors who are seeking huge returns and Nigeria tops the list of countries that had remarkable private capital inflow in 2021. A larger share of these funds was invested into venture capital assets followed by infrastructure and then private equity. About 145 Venture Capital deals were reported in Nigeria in 2021, with a total value of $1.1 billion, according to African Private Equity & Venture Capital Association (AVCA). “This is a wake-up call to assets fund managers to take advantage of this trend and position themselves for an early win in this dynamic asset management industry as alternative products promise better performance.” New technologies such as direct indexing are putting the core value proposition of asset managers at risk of disintermediation by simplifying the manufacturing and packaging process—which enables new participants to enter the market and build personalised products that they can take directly to their clients. This is especially the case for wealth managers, leading to a growing convergence between the asset- and wealth-management industries, which are both beginning to chase the same asset pools. The asset management industry continued its unprecedented growth trajectory in 2021, with global assets under management (AuM) rising by 12 per cent to $112 trillion, significantly above the 20-year growth average of seven per cent. Strong performance in equity markets has been the key driver, representing 90 per cent of revenue growth between 2005 and last year. During the same period, revenue from net flows have been offset by investors shifting their asset-class mix toward lower-priced products and by ongoing fee pressure. Yet, despite rising costs, operating profit margin rose to a healthy 38 per cent last year, up from 36 per cent a year earlier, as average AuM growth outpaced the increase in costs.