It was moving to read Anthony Eze speak about how his son, five-year-old Chidera, passed on in a swimming pool in Ikeja recently. Our hearts bleed with him while noting that the circumstances of his son’s death is another rendition of the inefficiency and incompetence of those charged to do basic things. The incident happened at the Ivory Health Club, Ogundana Street, Ikeja, where, according to reports and also confirmed by CCTV, 15 wards went for swimming lessons presumably under assured supervision. But the kids were not under the watchful eyes of caregivers, lifeguards and, therefore, the school management. Chidera was with his fellow students at the adult end of the pool. They should be at the kid’s and shallow end. They were not only at the deep end, there was only one caregiver in sight. Even that person was not watching, but the camera showed her moving in and out of the pool area while the children were left to their own fancies. When the boy slipped into the pool, no one was aware. In fact, another child fell into the pool and was rescued when Chidera had already sunk into the water. “My son was under the water for over 30 minutes and we were all shouting as we watched the video. Another pupil also fell into the water, but her colleagues raised the alarm and they pulled her out and while this was going on, nobody noticed my son was inside the water,” said Anthony Eze after watching the CCTV footage. We do not know if his fellow students raised the alarm when Chidera fell. The father dropped off his son at the school, according to him, at 10:52 a.m. Later he received a call from the school headteacher Mrs. Adeola Aladipo that they had rushed his son to the Ikeja Medical Centre.   Kuje prison attack     Diesel prize and healthcare     Bullet on Ballot   “I rushed down there, but what I saw was the lifeless body of my son. I asked the head teacher what happened and she said she did not know. I asked the doctor what happened and he said he was brought in dead. I asked the teachers, caregivers and workers at the club what happened and they gave no explanation. “As I was crying, my wife came in; I was trying to manage the information, but the head teacher also informed her and as she ran into the hospital, I became totally confused. I went to the Area F Police Station and after the policemen took pictures of my son’s corpse, we went to the club,” said Mr. Eze. To hear him relate the story, it was obvious that even if the caregiver was distracted and looked away when the child slid into water. She might have heard the boy struggle in the water. Hear the father: “My son was at the tail end of the line when he slipped into the pool the first time but he was able to bring himself out of the pool. But the second time he slipped into the water, he could not come out. All these happened and none of the teachers, caregivers and lifeguards took notice of what was happening.” The Lagos State Government promptly stepped into the matter with an investigation, and it revealed that the school, The Redeemers Nursery and Primary School, Ogba, on Acme Road, had not been registered. How did an illegal school operate in a city like Lagos, and bearing the name of a well-known religious organisation? This is a double tragedy. It lured believing parents with phony authenticity because of its name, and beguiled officials that it might be legal because there are quite of such schools in the state. No amount of encouragement can save a child that a father dropped whole, only to return to him as a corpse.