As Catholic Archdiocese of Kaduna buried late Rev Fr Vitus Vaishima Borogo, who was killed by bandits on Saturday, Archbishop of the Diocese, Most Rev Matthew Man-Oso Ndagoso said Nigerians have become prisoners in their own country due to persistent attacks and killings. Borogo was killed by terrorists on his farm in Kaduna, while his brother CY Borogo was kidnapped by the attackers. The priests of the Kaduna archdiocese led a peaceful protest after the funeral mass of the slain priest with some of them carrying placards with inscriptions like; ‘we are priest and not terrorists’, ‘government should secure Nigerians’, ‘anyone who kill lost his/her right to life’, ‘justice must be served’ , ‘do we still have a government’ and many others. In his remarks, Bishop Ndagoso said that, Nigerians are traumatised and at the stage of loosing hope, lamenting that some Nigerians have no reason to live again because of the way things are going on in the country. He said, “I feel devastated, it is so painful that within one year I have buried 3 priests who died in the hands of this bandits, the most painful one was late Fr. Aketeh whose burial took place last three weeks without his corpse.”   N30m property destroyed in Enugu college fire     Another gas well-head blowout in Bayelsa community     Anambra records two cases of Monkey Pox   “Over my 60 years of age we have not seen it this bad as it is now, even during the civil war it was not bad as it is now. Something is wrong with leadership of this country, we live in confusion in this country “We no longer have tears in our eyes because the source of our tears have dried up because of constant crying. We have also lost our voices because when you talk nobody listens, you cry nobody hears your cry, but we will not loose hope, one day God will wipe our tears,” he said.   Ndagoso advised that government should recruit young people who are willing to safeguard this country, adding that there are so many millions of young men who are willing to defend their land. He further said “any politician who can not secure Nigerians should not vying for any political position, it is better the person withdraw from the race.” On his part, the Vice Chairman of the Indigenous Priests of Kaduna, Rev. Fr Joseph Gandu called on the government to secure lives and property of Nigerians, maintaining that it is their social responsibility.