Cassava is a staple food for millions of people across Africa and a major source of income and employment for farmers. There are efforts to create an effective cassava entrepreneurship system to boost empowerment and drive change in the cassava value chain. DANIEL ESSIET reports. Cassava is a staple food in many countries in the tropics. Rising demand for it as food, animal feed, and industrial purposes is encouraging farmers to increase production. In 2019, analysts listed Nigeria, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Thailand, Ghana, Brazil, Indonesia, Angola, Vietnam, Cambodia, Mozambique, China, and Malawi, among the world’s biggest producers. Globally, analysts expect cassava root production in the 2021/22 crop year to increase by 1.21 per cent to 302 million tonnes. For them, better quality cassava feeds more people and provides income-generating opportunities for agricultural entrepreneurs, with positive ripple effects on millions of people. Appreciating the market opportunities and the high potential benefits to national economic development, the United Nation Development Programme (UNDP) has been working with countries that have identified  cassava as a national priority sector. One of such nations is Cambodia, which cassava has opened opportunities for it to increase food production, upgrade its products lines while ensuring resilience and sustainability of farming systems. Also its smallholder farmers’ productivity have increased with the adoption of practical measures. Last year, Cambodia launched a new national cassava policy, aimed at boosting  production and export of the cash crop. Launched by the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Agriculture, and the UNDP, the landmark national policy will run until 2025. For both organisations,planting, harvesting, processing and export of cassava is key to securing jobs and livelihoods for thousands of Cambodians. Also, it is a vital cash crop for farmers, said a joint press statement. Currently,  Cambodia is ranked as the fourth largest cassava producer in Asia and the 10th largest globally. Over 12 million tonnes of fresh cassava roots were harvested this year and the new policy will boost and diversify its growth and exports in the coming years, the joint statement from both organisations said. Commerce Minister Pan Sorasak said: “Cassava is key to Cambodia’s socioeconomic development and to reap the full rewards in future, we aim to upgrade the value chain by strengthening capacities and moving quickly to secure emerging market opportunities.” Equally, African Development Bank (AfDB) believes cassava offers good opportunities for Africa, if much is done to improve  output from the value chain to create consistent and high-quality supply. The bank has been an advocate of increasing cassava production for ethanol and other industrial uses. It is in support of the plan to grow the cassava value chain target of 200,000 smallholder farmers in Nigeria and two countries  and to cut $275 million worth of ethanol imports. One of those driving this is the bank’s Director, Department of Agriculture and Agro-Industry, Dr. Martin Fregene, who believes building the cassava value chain is one of the best opportunities for Africa to boost industrialisation. He said increasing investment in cassava production in Nigeria would reduce the yearly food importation bill of African countries estimated at about $35 billion. In line with the aspiration, AfDB and the Brazil-Africa Institute (BAI) launched the Youth Technical Training Programme (YTTP), an initiative that aims to train young African professionals in research and technology transfer, contributing to local capacity development. As part of the initiative, both parties announced the commencement of training of African youth for rewarding careers in cassava processing. The first batch of the YTTP training was kicked off at the AfDB headquarters in Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire, targeting 30 young African professionals (between 18 and 35) of the cassava value-chain selected from 14 countries. The trainees received a two-month training on the production chain of cassava at the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (EMBRAPA), a state-owned centre in Brazil. In 2020, AfDB pledged support for building an Economically Sustainable and Integrated Cassava Seed System, Phase 2 (BASIC-II) project of the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA). Fregene stated that the development bank, through its flagship project, Technologies for African Agricultural Transformation (TAAT), was excited to be part of BASICS-II “to ensure the best varieties are put in the hands of farmers as soon as possible”. The project aimed at creating a more-efficient dissemination of cassava stems that would trigger the adoption of new varieties to improve productivity; raise incomes of growers and seed entrepreneurs in Nigeria and Tanzania. Implementing partners include Mennonite Economic Development Associates (MEDA); Catholic Relief Services; IITA GoSeed; Umudike Seed; Tanzania Official Seed Certification Institute (TOSCI); SAHEL Consulting; Tanzania Agricultural Research Institute (TARI), and the National Root Crops Research Institute in Umudike, Abia State. Also, BASICS-II works with the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA) and the Foundation for Partnership Initiatives in the Niger Delta (PIND Foundation). So far, PIND Foundation has been leading an effort to support cassava value chain development in the Niger Delta. This is because it is   an important source of income for farmers in many parts of the region.   Abiodun, French Ambassador commission fan milk diary     Inside Nigeria’s organic fertiliser producing plant     Fan milk to commission model dairy farm in Ogun   For the fund, scaling up smallholder cassava value would lead increased  production of  chips, starch, ethanol, and animal feed. As part of this, PIND has been training entrepreneurs to explore opportunities across the entire cassava value chain. A cassava entrepreneur, Mrs. Bari Endurance, is a beneficiary. She has no cause to regret.  Following the training she received, she has been able to create a successful cassava business and become a village seed entrepreneur (VSE) in Bayelsa State. PIND’s Knowledge and Communications Manager, Chichi Nnoham-Onyejekwe, said the foundation aimed to coordinate actors, build technological capacity, improve productivity, and create market linkages to guarantee increased income and jobs. She said:  ”The Niger Delta region is contributing a third of the total national output.The number of people dependent on cassava for food and income in the region places the value chain at the core of our intervention efforts. We are determined to increase productivity to meet the growing demand for food products and connect competitive processors to highly productive farmers.This will result in increased income for farmers.” According to her, about N284 million has been invested in strengthening market systems and expanding outreach to farmers since 2012. She continued: “The institutionalisation of Cassava Seed Entrepreneurs (CSEs), involved in stem multiplication to increase the availability of improved stem varieties; administration of outgrower scheme clusters to link farmers to credible aggregating companies for industrial processing; and the creation of a scalable, optimised model has improved livelihood through jobs and increased income for farmers. “Two of PIND’s productivity-based interventions – involving the demonstration plot intervention and access to improved cassava stem varieties—are being escalated and implemented. Additionally, we have achieved two successful memoranda of understanding (MoUs) signed and operating with investors for implementation of outgrower/aggregation scheme in Edo and Delta states. Furthermore, we work with SAEL Global, Shine Bridge Global, andDufil to cluster farmers into our Cassava Outgrower/aggregation scheme for industrialisation and access to markets,” Nnoham-Onyejekwe added. She said the foundation has recorded N 4.73 billion net attributable changes in income for 19,916 farmers and reached 60,592 farmers with information and training, through demos and other outreach programmes. Between 2015 and 2019, she noted that the organisation intensified efforts to establish a sustained supply chain for quality cassava stems, by partnering the  National Root Crops Research Institute (NRCRI) to train 12 selected Village Seed Entrepreneurs (VSEs). She said the organisation engaged and supported more input companies to train 218 agro-dealers and lead farmers on good agronomic practices, who, in turn, delivered the same training to thousands of cassava farmers and helped the input companies to promote and retail their fertiliser and crop protection products to farmers. Her words:  “Cumulatively, the input companies and agro-dealers reached 39,397 cassava farmers in all states of the Niger Delta during the second phase through various outreach initiatives including demonstrations, and results sharing sessions.” Nnoham-Onyejekwe emphasised the importance of the cassava sector as a key contributor to food security and industrial development, highlighting its usefulness not just as a food crop but also as an intermediary raw material for food and industrial processes. For the founder and Chief Executive Officer, Niji Group, Kolawole Adeniji, agriculture remains a critical sector for the economy, given its major role in providing employment and disposable income. He runs cassava processing plants that produce high-quality flour, starch and garri in Oyo State. Adeniji has been driving investment in cassava processing activities. The project has recorded some improvements, mostly on the production side. A focus of his campaign in recent years has been the creation of cassava clusters across the region to encourage growers to be effectively integrated into larger value chains. Since 2015, he has invested and supported other investors to acquire thousands of cassava plantations in the range of 50 acres and upward  in the South-west. One area of work, he emphasised, would help strengthen the cassava value chain is providing local farmers with both improved agricultural practices and a direct access to market. He said the government must provide a greater focus on large-scale agriculture infrastructure development, while also encouraging private investment through incentives. Adeniji has been working on areas to make agriculture attractive and profitable to youths. He told The Nation that he has established a  training centre in Ibadan,Oyo State to  get more youths to embrace cassava production and processing. Generally, they are  trained  to become specialists in cassava planting through seed multiplication, technical back up, exposures,and repair of machines. His vision for cassava is that it would spur rural industrial development, helpraise incomes for producers, processors and traders while contributing to food security. According to him, the issue of low mechanisation agriculture has to be treated immediately to increase income and food security. In Morocco, an online platform has been established to help businesses to export cassava from any African country with ease. The platform integrates with cooperatives, farmers groups, agro-processors and other organisations that work directly with family farmers, including smallholder farmers, pastoralists and  farming  communities, to form a valuable link to markets around the world.