Against all predictions, the Peoples Democratic Party governorship candidate in the Osun gubernatorial election, Senator Ademola Adeleke, won the election. It was as decisive as could be: he polled 403,371 votes to beat the incumbent, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress party who polled 375,927 votes. Whereas the PDP candidate won in 17 of the 30 local government areas, Oyetola came top in 13 local government areas. The electoral umpire, the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC) not only proved that its investment in technology was not a waste, it came off in the end as a body ready to do credible electoral business. The winners of course have since been savouring their sweet victory.  Adeleke’s PDP has, as one would expect, been gloating, convinced as it were that the win, beyond mere symbolism, would amount to something in the assumed electoral calculus that is still some eight months away.  And then our ubiquitous but partisanly charged netizens; they have said just enough to leave the unwary public the impression of an electorate reduced mere tools in the electoral sweepstakes as against their being the principal driver of the process. To this trenchant army, the weekend gubernatorial election was a proxy war of sorts; something of a referendum on the APC and its flag bearer, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the outcome of which was supposed to be a pointer to the shape of things to come. Particularly interesting is how some newspapers actually gave the fantasy a wing, a trend that has become an inescapable part of the orchestrated onslaught against the APC presidential runner in the current hyper-charged political season. I guess the APC leaders in Osun would have, in the coming days, enough time to reflect not just on the election and its outcome but also on the many other developments tangential to it. In the meantime, the rest of us are left to speculate on why a governor who was obviously cut of a different cloth from his controversial and sometimes divisive predecessor, and who did well to tinker with some of the more outlandish policies that pitted the preceding administration against the people, couldn’t in the end, count on the same people to deliver him when it mattered most. Talk of fate playing its hand; few today remember that the man who later became famous as a dancing senator would perhaps have not smelt politics let alone being elected as a senator, had his more illustrious elder brother, Isiaka Adeleke not died in April 2017 while serving as APC senator. In the same vein, had the party, then under the leadership of Rauf Aregbesola as governor, yielded the seat to the younger Adeleke in deference to the mourning family and in recognition of the powerful interest the family represented and continues to represent in the state’s political matrix, the individual, who has now become his party’s nemesis, would in fact have contested and mostly likely would have won as an APC candidate with things possibly taking a different trajectory. Unfortunately, Aregbesola, the leader would have none of it – and the rest as they say, is history. A lot of water has of course passed under the bridge. Unquestionably, the 2018 election was a referendum on the departing administration of Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola. A bruising contest in which the eventual winner only managed to scrape a victory by the proverbial skin of his teeth, then, the issues were not so much about what the then candidate, Gboyega Oyetola, was bringing to the table but the burden that the departing administration had become to the people and with it the many controversies that it had courted many of them needlessly. Clearly, if many of the policies such as the controversial re-classification of the schools and with it the introduction of single uniforms across the entire schools system left the citizens breathless, some others, like the equally controversial the restructuring the local government system were such that left many in wonder as to the extent that the administration would go to elevate forms over substance. With the administration almost in all cases preferring to listen to itself as against the voices of the people on whose behalf it claimed to govern, the hapless citizen could only seize on the 2018 ballot to express their displeasure. And yes it did at great cost to the party and the candidate.   UPDATED: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd     Ondo lawmaker, farmers protest alleged forceful farmland…     BREAKING: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd   The 2022 election obviously presented a different scenario. As the incumbent, Oyetola’s record in nearly the whole of four years would of course come to play. Although lacking in the activist temper of his predecessor, here, even his most ardent critics would readily concede to his superior performance both in the management of the people and the resources of the state – the very department in which the preceding administration was rated low both by the bureaucrats and by the ordinary folk. So, as against being a referendum on performance, the contest would come down to basically a grudge rematch in which countless but disparate players – without and within – were involved, one in which victory was not so much about records but the extent to which the ruling party was able to tame the insidious forces of division and cleavages promoted by those who felt excluded from the gravy. In all, the difference between those rejoicing and those gloating over an assumed electoral rout would seem as clear as the line between those savouring the sweetness of victory and those relishing the shellacking of their erstwhile comrades. The former of course wanted the top job for their man; the latter – enemies within – were more about ensuring that the governor and by extension, their party paid a huge price for leaving them in the lurch. This is where those talking glibly of referendum miss the point.  As for those who suffer the delusion that the gubernatorial contest was anything more than a local affair, they are of course entitled to their dream world where anything is possible. Could Governor Oyetola have done better? Of course, those who say that the state’s helmsman, being the number one political leader, could have done things differently have a point. He could have played better politics. Some say he could have been less obsessed with his predecessor to the point of being paranoid. And that he could have been more trusting of his aides as a leader. On the other hand, some have also pointed out that the predecessor, under whom he had served as chief of staff for eight years, not only demanded being consulted on everything from party affairs to governance, but also insisted on being the last word on every matter. That a former boss would routinely mouth continuity as some cast-iron article of faith to which his successor is inextricably bound, would sound not only galling to a self-respecting leader but roundly offensive to an elected one. That, in a nutshell is at the root of the problem. Now the famed state of the Living Spring has found itself in a sorry pass in which a barely literate governor would have to be in the saddle for four dreary years. The situation is a huge lesson in the mismanagement of power and its correlates.