President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday urged the Senate to confirm Justice Olukayode Ariwoola for appointment as the substantive Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN). Buhari’s letter of request was read by Senate President Ahmad Lawan on the resumption of plenary. The President’s letter dated 25th July, 2022 reads: “Pursuant to Section 231(1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), I forward for confirmation by the Senate, the appointment of Hon. Justice Olukayode Ariwoola as the Chief Justice of Nigeria. “While I hope that the submission will be considered in the usual expeditious manner, please accept, Distinguished Senate President, the assurances of my highest consideration.” Justice Ariwoola is the Acting CJN. Justice Ariwoola took over the position on an acting capacity on June 27 following the resignation of Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad on health grounds. Before Justice Tanko Muhammad’s resignation, 14 Justices of the Supreme Court had petitioned him alleging poor welfare and outright mismanagement of the funds of the apex court. The Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters is probing the ex-CJN to determine the veracity or otherwise of allegations contained in the petition. Buhari also nominated four Non-Executive Directors on the Board of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for reappointment.   Appeal Court seeks support over post- 2023 elections…     Interstate transporters begin 25 percent fare increase Aug…     Ban would lead to more terror attacks – Miners   The President explained that the request to confirm the nominees was made in accordance with Section 10(3)(a) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (Establishment) Act 2007. The nominees are expected to be screened and confirmed by the Senate for appointment as Non-Executive Directors of the CBN. The nominees for confirmation include: Prof. Mike Idiahi Obadan (South South); Prof. Justitia Odinakachukwu Nnabuko (South East); Prof. Ummu Ahmed Jalingo (North East) and Mr. Adeola Adetunji (South West). Besides, President Buhari also urged the Senate to screen and confirm 19 nominees for appointment as Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Senate President Lawan read Buhari’s letter of request dated 25th July, 2022, at plenary. President Buhari said that the request for the confirmation of the nominees was in accordance with the Provisions of Section 154 (1) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended). He explained that five of the nominated RECs are for renewal of appointments while the other 14 are fresh engagements. The nominees for confirmation include: Ibrahim Abdullahi (Adamawa – Renewal); Obo O. Effanga (Cross River – Renewal); Alhaji Umar Ibrahim (Taraba – Renewal); Dr. Agboke Mutiu Olaleke (Ogun – Renewal); and Prof. Samuel E. Egwu (Kogi – Renewal). Others are: Onyeka Pauline Ugochi (Imo); Prof. Muhammad Lawal Bashir (Sokoto); Prof. Ayobami Salami (Oyo); Amb. Zango Abdussamadu Abdu (Katsina); Mrs. Queen Elizabeth Agwu (Ebonyi); and Dr. Agundu Oliver Tersoo (Benue). Also to be confirmed are: Yomere Gabriel Oritsemlebi (Delta); Prof. Yahaya Makarfi Ibrahim (Kaduna); Dr. Nura Ali (Kano); Agu Sylvia Uchenna (Enugu); Ahmed Yushau Garki (FCT); Barr. Hudu Yunusa (Bauchi); Prof. Uzochukwu Ikemefuna Chijioke (Anambra); and Mohammed B. Nura (Yobe).