The Nigeria Police Force (NPF) has passed out 9,989 constables from its four colleges and 12 training schools across the country. A breakdown of the figure shows that Force Public Relations Officer Olumuyiwa Adejobi, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), said this in a statement yesterday in Abuja. The Force spokesman said those who passed out of the schools were the recruits for the 2020 batch of annual recruitment of 10,000 constables approved by the Federal Government. He said the constables passed out after undergoing six months of intensive training in basic, intermediate and advanced police studies. Adejobi said they also engaged in physically exerting and intellectually challenging training activities that were carefully designed to transit the recruits from civilians to professional police officers. The police spokesman added that the constables have been equipped with the right orientation to meet the challenges of policing in a democratic and rule-driven environment. According to him, the recruitment and training represent another huge step in the drive by the Federal Government to change the narrative of policing by addressing the age-long manpower gap.   Fed Govt: petrol scarcity will linger until full…     Ekweremadu: Court orders AGF to transmit Ukpo’s biodata to…     Buhari: Barkindo was a national asset   Adejobi said the gap had been inhibiting optimal police service delivery in the country, adding that the idea was to meet and possibly surpass the United Nations (UN) recommendation of one policeman to 400 citizens. The Force spokesman said IGP Baba hailed the Federal Government for approving the annual recruitment of 10,000 constables into the NPF. He said the approval was part of the determination of the government to bequeath a reformed and well-positioned police force to the country. According to him, 11 of the 10,000 recruits who started the training could not meet up with components of the standards set for exercise. Adejobi said 10,000 recruits for the 2021 batch would resume training after passing out parade of the 2020 batch. The Force spokesman said the IGP advised them to embrace discipline as their success was dependent on the quality of their character, discipline and professionalism. “Resolve not to engage in any act that will be unedifying to your good name, your families and indeed the Nigeria Police as you commence your policing career,” he said.   The new constables will be posted to their local government areas.