A traditional spiritual leader, Chief Nurudeen Oyero has thrown his weight behind the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential flag bearer in next year’s general elections, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Oyero, who is the chairman of Ifa Priests in Lagos State, said he and members of his association are ready to support Tinubu in his efforts to get to power. The Ifa priest made the indication at a press conference in Lagos recently. He also called on Nigerians to turn out en masse to vote for the former Lagos State governor. He said: “We thank God that Asiwaju Tinubu won the APC presidential primary. When he was Lagos State governor, he was successful. We believe if he wins next year’s presidential election, he will change the fortunes of the country, hence we have declared our total support for him.” Read Also; 2023: Nigerians in UK, U.S step up preparation to host Tinubu   I’ll not let you down, Adeleke tells Timi of Ede     Lagos steps down new abortion guidelines     Kuje attack: Senate shocked by no CCTV, porous security   Oyero, however, urged Tinubu to remain steadfast to his nationalist ideals. He described the APC leader as a true nationalist and bridge builder. He said: “We have seen his efforts in ensuring the country remains united. He should be committed to his nationalist ideals. He is a true patriot and bridge builder. We also seek the support of Yoruba indigenes home and abroad to support Tinubu’s presidential ambition and ensure he occupies the seat of power.” The Ifa priest who is also a market leader bemoaned the current economic situation in the country, particularly the rate of inflation. He said he is convinced that Tinubu would bring his wealth of experience to reposition the economic fortunes of the country. Oyero hailed Tinubu for his innovative revenue generation in Lagos, which has put a stop to the state’s dependence on federal allocations. He said: “Lagos was generating about N600,000 monthly before Tinubu became governor, but the state’s internally generated revenue (IGR) increased astronomically during his tenure and beyond. At the moment, it has hit over N40 billion monthly”. The Ifa priest described him as an astute politician who the nation needs at a time like this. He urged youths and citizens to get their Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC) and have a say in the electoral process.