Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and State Inland Revenue Services have resolved to build a databank to improve tax investigation. The databank will contain information about all taxpayers and entities to make it easier for the governments to harvest taxes. The FIRS and State Inland Revenue Services (SIRs) will be collaborating with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) to build the databank. Executive Chairman of the FIRS Muhammad Nami made this disclosure in Abuja yesterday while hosting a meeting of the Council Members of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN), the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), and the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN) to discuss the implementation of an MoU on standardisation of tax practice in Nigeria. According to Nami, “the FIRS alongside State Inland Revenue Services are collaborating with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) to build a databank to improve tax investigation”. He explained that “on the part of the FIRS, the tax authority has adopted renewed strategies to tackle financial reporting concerns”. The strategies include “the accreditation of tax consultants and auditors in the FIRS, the review of data from Automatic Exchange of Information as well as increased enforcement actions”.   I’ll not let you down, Adeleke tells Timi of Ede     Lagos steps down new abortion guidelines     Kuje attack: Senate shocked by no CCTV, porous security   Nami noted that the FIRS had created new departments such as the Intelligence, Strategic Data Mining and Analysis Department, the Special Crimes Department, the Tax Incentives Management Department and the Emerging and Special Taxes Department, which he stated are at the forefront of unravelling financial reporting issues through data mining. Nami called on professional bodies in the regulation of tax practice to lead conversations on matters of tax policy and tax laws in the country. He urged the professional bodies to “work hand-in-hand with the Service to deepen the FIRS’ institutional framework through qualitative reporting and effective representation of their clients”. According to him, “our professional bodies need to speak on matters of tax policies and tax laws especially on proposals to annual Finance Bills. “We also urge you to help the Service to deepen the institutional framework through quality reporting and effective representation of clients by our professional colleagues. “We need to stem the tide in improving financial reporting to reduce the spate of ‘copy and paste’ financial reporting systems as we experience today.” Mr. Nami stated. The presidents of the three bodies, Prof Benjamin Osisioma of ANAN, Mr. Tijjani Musa Isa of ICAN and Mr. Adesina Adedayo of the CITN commended the FIRS Executive Chairman for showing leadership in pushing for and enabling a resolution of the squabbles between the three bodies. While thanking Mr. Nami for his leadership, the Professor Osisioma noted that failure to cooperate amongst the three bodies would lead to chaos in tax practice regulation in the country. “If we fail to cooperate and collaborate, we would destroy what we are trying to build,” he stated.