Few speak of it, but it haunts our health system, and the desperate among us. Yet, blood transfusion is an important part of health policy anywhere health is taken seriously. Nigeria ranks as one of the lowest in the world in donating blood to the needy among us. “Of the 179 countries, only 79 have become 100 per cent compliant with the WHO standards in blood transfusion. Nigeria is not part of the countries that are compliant,” said Prof. Vincent Osunkalu, consultant haematologist and blood transfusionist at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Idi-Araba, Lagos. This is a dismal fact. He said further that “whereas Americans donate about seven pints of million types of blood yearly, in Nigeria, data gathering is a challenge. The National Blood Transfusion Act has just been approved. From available information, Nigerians could only generate about 500, 000 pints of blood in the last few years, which represents a 3.3 per cent shortfall in the volume of blood collected from voluntary blood donors.” In spite of that, 95 per cent of donor blood units in Nigeria are not safe because they could infect the beneficiaries with such diseases as HIV, syphilis, hepatitis A and C. This is also because the blood donors tend to be mercantile, and they are desperate people who need to feed themselves. That also means they do not have the best quality of blood even if they do not carry any ailments.   Prioritising people     Was it a warning shot?     Dissociative identity disorder   “Commercial blood donation is not considered as a good source of safe blood. This means we are left with 25,000 units of safe blood yearly in Nigeria, which is grossly inadequate and a huge challenge to the provision of quality healthcare to the people,” said committee Chairman, Blood Transfusion and Haematological Services of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Dr. Attah J. Ahmed, last year. The best value often comes from volunteers and family members, and these people provide it by subjecting themselves to the rigour of standards. They account for a fraction of donations. Experts say blood donation may lower your risk of suffering a heart attack, reduce your risk of developing cancer, afford better emotional balance, less risk of depression, reduction in harmful iron stored in the body, among other physical gifts. Many people lose blood and need them in emergency wards. But most Nigerian hospitals operate without blood at the ready. This leads to many avoidable fatalities. One of the areas of major challenges is in maternal health. Many deaths occur because the mothers have lost blood, and they happen mainly post-partum, according to experts. The lack of blood often comes in the form of haemorrhage, sepsis, eclampsia, complications from abortion and also bad labour. The problem with blood donors is a reflection of the general malaise of the healthcare system in the country. Many citizens cannot even get properly tested in the country because many hospitals lack the essential facilities. It was reported recently, for instance, that most Nigerians who suffer from high blood pressure do not know it, and the silent killer snatches away many persons like a thief in the night. Part of the problem is that our elite go abroad for treatment, and when they need blood, they would not have to depend on the poverty of our blood banks for succour. Whether in the United Kingdom, or the United States, the answer is not far-fetched. We are still witnessing the unfolding story of former deputy president of the senate, Ike Ekweremadu, who was held by the U.K. with his wife, over efforts to secure kidney to save his daughter. It is a parable of the state of neglect, and lack of faith in what we have.