Daraju Industries Limited and Eat ‘N’ Go Limited plan to raise about N25 billion in debt capital from the capital market. The two indigenous firms will use the short-to-medium debt capital to diversify their balance sheet and support ongoing business growth plans. Daraju, a household trading and manufacturing company, plans to raise about N10 billion in short-term capital through the issuance of commercial paper (CP). Eat ‘N’ Go Limited, through its special purpose vehicle, Eat & Go Finance SPV Plc, has registered a N15 billion bond issuance programme. The holding company for the Domino’s Pizza in Nigeria will be raising additional N3.5 billion under the issuance programme. Daraju engages in manufacturing and trading of household items such as fabric care, oral care and body care products among others. Already, Daraju has registered its N10 billion CP at the FMDQ Securities Exchange, which strategically positions the firm to raise short-term finance for its working capital need at any time deemed suitable. Eat & Go Finance SPV Plc will be offering a N3.50 billion Series 2 Fixed Rate Bond under its N15 billion bond issuance programme. Eat & Go Finance SPV was specially established by Eat ‘N’ Go to raise finance from the capital market through the listing of debt securities.   Geregu Power seeks N40b to support expansion     Five new partners join PwC Nigeria     TAJBank targets banking licence   Eat ‘N’ Go is a master franchisee for the Domino’s Pizza, Cold Stone Creamery and Pinkberry Gourmet Frozen Yoghurt brands with more than 100 stores in nine states across Nigeria. Preliminary details indicated that Eat ‘N’ Go will use the net proceeds from the bond issue to fund reserve accounts and offset the costs of the company’s capital expenditure, among others. FMDQ Exchange assured that as part of its efforts toward unlocking the potential of the Nigerian economy, it will continue to promote market development in collaboration with its diverse stakeholders, to make the markets within its purview globally competitive. “FMDQ Exchange continues to sustain efforts in ensuring that corporates have uninterrupted access to a credible and robust platform for the registration, listing, quotation, and trading of debt securities. The Exchange, through continuous information disclosure, will continue to provide tailored and value-adding services, offer end-to-end support for a streamlined and seamless process, foster transparency and information symmetry, and promote credibility” FMDQ stated. The Exchange noted that the recourse to the capital market by the companies underlines the confidence of the companies in its platform and the Nigerian capital market generally as a viable marketplace to raise funds to meet funding requirements of companies and governments.