Mr. Osita Godwin Chiagba, a businessman, opened an account with the Access Bank in order to secure his money. Satisfied, he went home believing he could now sleep in peace. On May 7th 2022, Chiagba, who deals majorly in generators of all types, was at the llasamaja Market, Lagos, trying to procure generator parts for a customer. Suddenly, he heard his phone beep. Engrossed in what he was doing, he ignored it. He heard it the second time, and as he was trying to retrieve the phone from his pocket, more message alerts came in quick successions. Glancing at the screen he saw they were all debit alerts, about seven of them ranging from N20,000 to N50,000. Alarmed because the debit transactions were not authorised by him, he rushed to the nearest Access Bank to report the incident. His account, 144….31 was blocked but by then the suspected fraudster had withdrawn N220,000. This was money a customer paid into his account for the purchase of the generator parts that brought him to the market in the first place. Totally distraught and disheveled, he asked the bank how he could recover his money as the money was kept in their care. The bank official directed him to his home branch, at No. 205 Shasha Rd, Akowonjo, Alimosho Local Government Area, Lagos. Having been stripped of the money for the purchase of the generator parts, he went straight to the Access Bank branch, where he opened the account, hoping and praying that his money would be handed over to him. At the bank, an official named Mr. Lewis interviewed him. Having confirmed that his ATM card and other bank materials were not compromised, he advised him to go to the Police Station. Dissatisfied with the response, but without any option, Chiagba went to the Afonka Police Station, Shasha where he reported the case. The balance in his account was not even up to N50,000. After appeals and entreaties to the police. Meanwhile, the customer that paid him the money kept calling him for an update regarding the purchase but he could not even tell him what befell him. Back at the bank, the same official, Mr. Lewis informed him that there was nothing the bank could do, that it was the police work to apprehend the criminal. The next day, he went back to the bank and to his temporary relief they told him that the bank had been able to track the beneficiary’s account number, names and other details. Elated, he asked how soon he would be able to get his money. However, to his greatest surprise, the bank official told him that it was his business to pursue the case. He complained of lack means to do so, arguing that he would have sought a safer place to keep his money if he knew his bank was not reliable. At that point, the bank official told him that they would still get in touch with him. Days later, he received a message on his phone from the bank asking to give them till the 14th of July 2022. “Dear Osita, your case ID is CAS-13447128-44N5YO—we will update you by 14/07/2022.” Since then he has not heard from the Access Bank and all his efforts to speak to them have yielded no positive fruit thus far. While the case of Chiagba was pathetic, that of Mrs. Obiamka Jide was worrisome. Jide, a GTBank customer with the acct no. 014…5, was at Afeez Bus Stop, Ogba, Lagos, January 15 2022 to make withdrawals from a GTB ATM. Unfortunately her card got trapped in the ATM without dispensing money. Four days after the incident, Mrs. Jide, a pregnant woman, went to the bank to retrieve the card, but was advised to get another card as she could no longer use the other card because 24 hours had elapsed. On 19th January, a new card was issued to her. However, on the 28th of January, barely one week after, she received several One Time Pass codes [OTP] asking her to use the OTP to confirm her new means of authentication for her GTBank mobile app. The heavily pregnant woman quickly ran back to the bank to confirm if the messages were from them. They replied in the negative and subsequently advised that the mobile application be deleted while they reset the password and her secret questions and re-issued her with a new card. About two weeks after, the second card was issued to her, precisely on February 17th 2022, she received a similar OTP, asking her to confirm her new means of authentication for the mobile banking.  Like before, she headed to the nearest GTBank but before she could get there, a total of two million, one hundred and ninety thousand naira [N2,190,000] had been removed from her account. She rushed to her bank to report the case. The next day, she sent an email addressed to the manager at the Magodo branch of GTB, detailing everything that happened. She stated that N300, 000 was moved from her account to an account with the name Reuben Ishaya, of Sparkle Microfinance, with account number 1000374253. The rest of the money was moved in batches of N400,000, N500,000, N509,000, N490,000 to Sporty Internet Ltd, who listed their phone numbers as 07047983718, 09063280548, 09160197607 and 09069168175. In the email which was made available to The Nation, Mrs Jide demanded that GTB should investigate and fish out the perpetrators and return the money. She threatened that if the bank did not return the money she kept in their care, she was prepared to go to town with the story as well as get relevant agencies like the Central Bank of Nigeria [CBN], and the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation [NDIC] involved in the case. She later received an email from the bank which stated that her request on fraud/unauthorised transaction with ticket number 220221252603477 had been received and should be resolved by 23/02/2022. “If you are not satisfied with the resolution after the time frame provided, please visit the help Center on GTbank website.”   Lekki Port to generate $562b revenue in 45years     Firm to empower kids with coding skills     ‘IFAD lifted over 120 million smallholder farmers worldwide…   Subsequently, she received another email dated February 23 2022, signed by Omoruyi Aiyudu, E.fraud, Analytics and e-channel security Group, stating that the fraudulent transactions were done via mobile banking platform. Mr. Aiyudu stated that the customer’s account was restricted from further debit immediately she complained. He stated that the beneficiary’s bank was immediately contacted to restrict the beneficiary’s account but “we received feedback that the accounts had been restricted and funds drawn. However, we are following up to obtain the beneficiary’s BVNs for the watchlist. We are also following the merchant.” Furthermore, Mr. Aiyudu stated that the transaction was authenticated on all security levels of the mobile banking platform. He said that investigation revealed that the customer’s profile was registered on a new mobile device at 12:55:32pm on 17/02/2022 with her card details and One-Time Pass Code [OTP] sent to the customer’s email address/mobile phone. “We have reasons to believe that your security details, email and mobile number had been compromised. It is important to state that our investigation did not reveal internal compromise or wrong doing on the part of the bank. We advise that you immediately report this matter to the police for further investigation as the bank is willing to cooperate with the police in carrying out their investigation.” At this stage, the pregnant distraught customer had to petition the Deputy Commissioner of Police, State Criminal Investigative Department, Smith Street Yaba, Lagos. In the email dated February 2022 made available to The Nation, she appealed to the Police to help retrieve her money. “I am trying to survive with the little money the said culprits stole from my account and I do not have any option than to report this matter to your good office to investigate and recover my money.” Not having heard from the bank since the last communication of two weeks, she emailed them again requesting for an update and stating her dissatisfaction with the lackadaisical manner they were handling her case. “I am totally dissatisfied with this incident and expect that GTB will go all out to resolve this issue by ensuring that the fraudsters are apprehended. I believe NDIC and the CBN will not take unauthorised withdrawal from a bank customer’s account as a light matter but will ensure the customer is protected and money refunded. I await your swift response.” Responding to an email dated March 11th 2022, the bank said, “we reached out to the merchant, unfortunately funds had been drawn. We advise that you report this matter to the law enforcement agencies for further investigations.” Being left completely in the cold by the bank and with the police dragging their feet, she had to use high personal contact to mount pressure on the police who subsequently mounted pressure on the bank even threatening to arrest some staff. “The bank did not want to pay. They said they had many customers with such issues and if they should refund all of them, that the bank would collapse. At one point, they said I should go to court. They deployed all manners of delay tactics. “With my highly placed contact mounting pressure on the police, a series of meetings were arranged between the police, bank and myself to resolve the matter. The police insisted the bank repay the money that was in their custody.” Exactly three months from the time Mrs. Jide reported the case to the police, as the brouhaha continued between the bank and the police as to how the female bank customer would recover her money, Mrs Jide who was under great stress, suffered a miscarriage. According to her, it took that miscarriage for the bank to pay her. “Immediately I sent them news about the miscarriage and photos of the foetus, the next day GTbank credited my account with N1,790,000.00 remaining a balance of N300,000.00 which I have vowed to collect. It was not easy getting my money back.” In a telephone conversation with the reporter, last week, Tuesday, Mrs. Jide disclosed that she had sent messages to the bank demanding for her balance. She equally revealed that she sent a message to the Police last week 25th July 2022 wondering why they have not been able to arrest the culprit and recover her money when they have his address and other contact details. Unlike Mrs. Jide who was able to recover the bulk of her money based on her high network of contacts, this may not be so for the likes of Mr. Osita Chiagba and many other bank customers with no police connections and contacts in high places. In an email dated July 21 2022 and addressed to the Corporate Affairs Manager of Access Bank, Mr Abdul Imoyo, our correspondent wanted the bank’s side of the story but could not make any positive headway as many questions were left unanswered. Much later in the day, Imoyo called the reporter and advised that Mr. Chiagba should report the case to the police. When the reporter informed him that the case had already been reported to the police, he said the affected customer should get a court order. On why the bank could not refund the customer, he confirmed what Mr. Lewis told the customer earlier, “many customers have this issue and if we keep refunding them the bank will close-down.” The question on the lips of many is that does that mean that customers’ money is not safe with Access Bank. As at press time, the CBN was yet to reply to the enquiries sent to the Consumer Department of the CBN regarding this matter on the 22nd July 2022 except an automated response. However, the last communication from Access Bank to Mr. Chiagba was that they would contact him by the 14th of July 2022. But two weeks after, there has been no word from the bank. On his part, Mr. Chiagba said all efforts to speak with the bank since then had proved abortive.