An early morning fire yesterday destroyed no fewer than 11 shops in Alanamu market, Ilorin West local government area of Kwara State. The incident, said to have been caused by power surge, occurred around 5am. Spokesman of the state Fire Service Hassan Adekunle confirmed the incident, putting the worth of the goods destroyed at N9.6 million. Mr Adekunle added that “there was no one in the market, not even the security guards, to notice the fire outbreak. A bike man passing by was the one who saw the raging inferno and quickly informed the state fire service. “However, firemen did everything possible to stop the spread of the burning fire to the other shops, and subsequently extinguished the fire. Out of the 86 shops in the market arena, 11 shops were affected. “The estimated property saved was N865.5 million and the estimated property lost was N9.6 million.” He urged the general public especially the market people to be more safety conscious. Also yesterday, property worth millions od naira were  lost in a fire outbreak at a two-storey residential building in Akunnia Street, Woliwo, Onitsha, Anambra State.   Appeal Court seeks support over post- 2023 elections…     UPDATED: Buhari seeks Justice Ariwoola’s confirmation…     Interstate transporters begin 25 percent fare increase Aug…   The incident which occurred around 4.35am, affected the last floor of the building. Though no life was lost in the inferno, the fire, according to eyewitnesses, could have spread to other adjoining buildings if not for the quick intervention of neighbours before the arrival of firefighters who later brought it under control. Confirming the incident, the State Fire Chief, Martin Agbili said the cause of the fire was not immediately known. He said, “At about 0435hrs (4.35am) of today (yesterday)  Anambra State Fire Service received a distress call of fire outbreak in a two-storey residential building at Akunnia Street, Woliwo, Onitsha. “We deployed two fire trucks and firefighters to the fire scene. The fire was fought, controlled and extinguished with the assistance of the public who were at the scene before our arrival. “Although the fire affected the last floor of the building but a lot were saved within and around the burning building. “As at the time of fighting the fire, the cause of the fire remains unknown and there was no loss of life. “Major challenge encountered was that our fire trucks found it difficult to penetrate the street to the burning building due to how the buildings were structured with no space for emergency vehicles. “We left the fire scene at about 0645hrs (6.45am).”