The usually tepid plenary sessions in  the two chambers of the National Assembly got an unexpected jolt on Wednesday. Lawmakers in both chambers, mainly of the opposition parties, joined forces to issue an  impeachment threat to President Muhammadu Buhari over the festering insecurity ravaging the land.The move was initiated by  Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP’s) Senators who  rallied their colleagues in the smaller parties to stage a walk out of the day’s plenary session. They accused  Senate President  Ahmad Lawan of  reneging  on an agreement jointly reached by the entire body of senators during a closed session to serve an impeachment notice on President Buhari. But senators of the majority All Progressives Congress (APC) disputed the PDP claim and said  the agreement reached at the closed session was to give the  President a six-week ultimatum to address the pervasive insecurity in the land, failing which the Senate would decide on the next course of action. There have been strident and deafening calls far and near, to the Federal Government to effectively mobilise the security agencies to confront and put an end to the hydra headed security challenges. Terrorists of the Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP), Boko Haram and an ubiquitous army of marauding    bandits have continued to wreak havoc in many parts of the country. Almost on a daily basis, Nigerians wake up to terrifying news of bloody attacks by these terror organisations. Many innocent Nigerians are daily falling victim to  senseless killings, rape, abduction and kidnap for ransom. The large scale devastation across states and territories in the Northeast, Northwest and parts of the North Central, has since spread to the Southeast, Southwest and the South South. Emboldened by their criminal exploits and the apparent incapacity of the overburdened security agencies to decisively rout them, the benighted terrorists have now moved to the nation’s capital. It started with the March 28 bloody attack on an Abuja-Kaduna passenger train during  which a number of passengers and police escorts were killed. The armed terrorists abducted scores of other passengers, some of whom are still in the den of their captors. The terrorists are demanding a N100 million ransom for each captive.Relatives and friends of some of the victims have been going through hell to raise the funds to get their loved ones released.Others are not that lucky.They keep hoping and praying for divide intervention to see them through the dehumanising conditions they are subjected to in  captivity. The entire world was treated to a recent nerve wrenching viral video of the remaining train passengers being flogged by their captors. It was a provocative sight of grown men being whipped like petty thieves by men who at best could be their gardeners or security men at their gates back home. It was quite a pitiable sight, seeing mothers, grandmothers and children among the abducted passengers weeping and seething as they watched the criminals inflict bodily and psychological injuries on the men. A deeper national injury was inflicted by the terrorists a few weeks earlier, when they attacked the Kuje Correctional Centre in Abuja where they succeeded in freeing their members who were arrested in connection with the train attack and who were being kept at the facility. According to reports, the terrorists had stormed the facility in large  numbers, killed whoever stood in their way, set some vehicles ablaze, broke into a section of the facility where their members were kept and released them to the last man. Reports also indicated that they operated for about two hours unchallenged. By official account, no fewer than 600 inmates were released by the invading terrorists. President Buhari visited the facility a few days after the invasion where he raised some posers to no one in particular. To date, no one has actually addressed the issues raised by the President and no one is being held accountable for the avoidable security breach. The irony of it all  is that while the terrorists were able to free their members arrested and kept in jail by the federal authorities, the Nigerian government has been unable to rescue its citizens who are being held captive by the terrorists. The public was later to learn from House of Representatives  Deputy Speaker Idris Wase that the Department of State Services (DSS) had indeed furnished the President with 44 different security reports warning about the pending attack on the correctional facility weeks before the attack took place. No one ,either in the Presidency or the security agencies, has yet denied  the Deputy Speaker’s claim. It is apparent that the relevant authorities failed to act on the multiple security reports said to have been filed by the DSS. Just before the last Eid-el Kabir, a group of terrorists  ambushed an advance team of the  presidential convoy on its way to President Buhari’s Daura country home in Katsina State. An undisclosed number of security operatives was said to have died during that bloody encounter. Apparently basking in the euphoria of their ‘victory’ in the presidential convoy attack and the Kuje jail break,  the terrorists, a few days ago, upped their deadly game with another daring attack on a detachment of the  Guards Brigade of the Nigerian Army. The Scorpion Squad, as their service insignia indicates, are members of the elite presidential guards. They form the last line of defence in the event of an enemy attack on the seat of power, and by extension, on the President himself. The soldiers had reportedly responded to a distress call from the authorities of the Nigerian Law School, located in Bwari, in the Bwari Area Council, about 40-kilometre distance from the city centre. The Law School authorities had received communication from the terrorists informing them of a pending attack on the facility. But as it turned out, the terrorists’ actual target was Veritas University, a private university located about three kilometres away from the Law School. The soldiers had put their training to use by extending their scope of coverage to that private university where they discovered the terrorists’ hideout in the vast forest right behind the perimeter fence of the institution. As was reported, the soldiers had engaged the terrorists who were said to be in their numbers, in a fierce gun battle when the troops came under ambush. A few casualties were reportedly recorded by the federal troops while the terrorists, who were said to have been pursued deep into the forest, suffered no fewer than 12 casualties. Also within the federal capital territory, Nigerian soldiers were on Thursday night, attacked at a military checkpoint at Zuma Rock, a boundary community with neighbouring Niger State. An account said a soldier was killed in the attack and that at least two of the terrorists were brought down. These attacks were staged a few days after the terrorists had threatened to abduct President Buhari and Kaduna State Governor Nasir el-Rufai. The Governor later claimed that   Buhari never knew about the threat to abduct him until he (El-Rufai), informed him during a visit to the seat of power on Thursday, well over two weeks after the terrorists issued the threat. There appears to be a disconnect in the chain of command. Could the attacks on soldiers of the Presidential Guards be linked to the threat by the terrorists to abduct President Buhari? Many would have expected that by now some of the leaders of the terrorist groups ought to have been rounded up,tried and punished according to the law. And in the forbidden event of the terrorists having their way in the nation’s administrative capital, how many top federal government officials and politicians might  be abducted along the line? Apparently, that must have been the driving force behind the impeachment threat by opposition federal lawmakers. And beyond the lawmakers’ expectations of possible political capital to be made from the impeachment brouhaha, is the enlightened self interest of the political class itself. With the pervasive insecurity that has continued to ravage their various constituencies in the hinterland, the lawmakers have come to see Abuja as their sanctuary; a place of refuge and protection. From their safe haven in Abuja, they make periodic appearances in their troubled constituencies once in a while and scurry back to the capital city as fast their feet can take them. But now that terrorists have invaded their comfort zone, they are gripped by the fear of losing it all to the marauders.    2023: Why all Yoruba should vote Tinubu     Burna Boy, Future headline Canadian concert     Olarinoye wins first gold for Nigeria   There is also a conspiracy theory to the mix. Many, including some influential Nigerians, have alleged official connivance with the various terrorist organisations. A former Defence Minister, General Theophilus Danjuma (rtd) had raised the alarm a few years ago but which the Federal Government characteristically dismissed as a wolf’s cry. The  perceived helplessness of the military and other security agencies to tackle the growing terrorist attacks across the nation appears to reinforce this theory. Considering the huge  funds the terrorists have amassed through collection of  ransom and the high tech weapons at their disposal, it has become quite difficult for many Nigerians to dismiss the conspiracy theory outright. More so, President Buhari’s largely lethargic approach to addressing the security challenges and the existential threat they pose to the nation’s stability, has given a life to the banner being hoisted by the conspiracy theorists. Incidentally, not a few Nigerians across the divides are buying into the conspiracy theory. The public has lost count of the number of  meetings the President has had with his security chiefs with very little tangible result from the efforts. Assurances by the government after each  meeting are beginning to sound like a broken record in the ears of the sufficiently traumatised members of the public. Also, the queer position taken by the Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami on the issue of insecurity has left many wondering if the government at the centre is not complicit in the entire matter. They are quick to recall how Malami rose in stout defence of illegal occupation of forest reserves in states in the Southwest zone. In a particular instance, Ondo State Governor  Rotimi Keredolu, had given the marching order to illegal aliens occupying forest reserves in the state to vacate the forests. And while the echo of the governor’s voice was yet to subside, Malami went on  the rooftops to repudiate Akeredolu’s directive. According to the Attorney General, the order to quit the forest was a violation of the forest dwellers’ freedom of movement as guaranteed by the Nigerian constitution. As it were, the entire city of Abuja is surrounded by forests. There are six Area Councils that make up the federal territory, which has the Abuja Municipal Area Council as the city centre. The remaining five Area Councils, namely Bwari, Kwali, Abba Aji, Karshi and Gwagwalada, have hundreds of kilometers of uninhabited thick forests within their precincts. The federal authorities and the security agencies are not unaware of the fact that these forests provide cover for terrorists operating within Abuja and its environs. The question is: With Attorney General Malami’s insistence that flushing these elements out of forests in the Southwest violates their freedom of movement, will the same Federal Government that Malami works for, be willing to flush these elements out of Abuja forests? Again, with the stiff opposition from the same Malami to the setting up of the Southwest local security outfit, code named Amotekun Corps, can the government sincerely claim to be genuinely concerned about the security of the people? Given these disturbing scenarios, the call for Buhari’s impeachment may as well be viewed beyond the political gimmickry of the opposition lawmakers and the envisioned electioneering gains therefrom. However, the call, which analysts say lacks any iota of patriotic fervour, is coming at a most inauspicious time considering the stringent procedure outlined in the Nigerian constitution to pull the process through. A sitting President can be impeached if found guilty of gross misconduct. The Constitution defines gross misconduct as “a grave violation or breach of the provisions of the constitution or a misconduct of such nature as amounts in the opinion of the National Assembly, to gross misconduct”. The procedure for impeaching a  President is quite stringent, as captured in Section 143 of the 1999 Constitution (As Amended). It requires  the presentation of  a notice of allegation(s) in writing detailing the instances of gross misconduct on the part of the President. The notice must be signed by at least two-thirds of members of the two chambers of the National Assembly and presented to the Senate President. Then the Senate President must, within seven days, serve the President of the Federal Republic and each member of the National Assembly with a copy of the notice of allegation(s). At this point, the President has a right to reply to the allegations in writing and may also choose not to reply. If he replies, copies of his written response must be served on each member of the federal legislature. Within 14 days of the presentation of the notice to the Senate President, each of the two chambers of the National Assembly shall resolve through a motion, without any debate, whether or not the allegation(s) be investigated. This motion requires a two-thirds majority support of members in the two chambers to fly. If the motion fails to get the required majority votes, the process gets terminated at this point and no further action will be taken. But if it gets the required majority votes, the Senate President will, within seven days of passing the motion, call on the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) to appoint a panel of seven members who, in his opinion, are of unquestionable integrity to investigate the allegation(s). Members of the panel must not be public servants, serving members of the legislature or members of any political party. The panel will now report its findings within three months of its inauguration and present same to the two chambers of the National Assembly. The panel must give the President the right to defend himself, either in person or through a legal representation of his choice. If the panel finds no merit in the allegation(s), the process will be discontinued forthwith. On the other hand, if the panel resolves that the allegation(s) has merit, the National Assembly will consider the report and resolution for the adoption of the report will be moved in the two chambers. However, the resolution must be supported by at least two-thirds majority of (all) members of the Senate and the House of Representatives. Once adopted, the President stands removed from office immediately. Having gone through the entire procedure, the President cannot challenge his impeachment in court or subject it to any judicial proceedings with a view to reversing the outcome. Also, he cannot challenge the decision of the panel or that of the legislature in any court. One of the consequences, is that the President, having been removed from office, automatically loses the right to his pension for life. Once impeached, the President must vacate office immediately. If there is a sitting vice president, he/she takes over and will take the oath of office as President. However, if the President is impeached together with the Vice President (as it’s being canvassed by some of the lawmakers), the Senate President shall step in as President of the Federal Republic for a period not exceeding three months. Within this period, a fresh election must be conducted to elect a new President that will complete what is left of the tenure of the impeached President. The position of the National Assembly before it proceeded on recess on Wednesday July 27, was that President Buhari was given six weeks to address the growing insecurity in the land. The six weeks will expire mid September while the lawmakers will be resuming session on September 20. Assuming the impeachment process begins on that date, it will take close to four months to run its full course. That will spill to January 2023. Going by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) timetable, the 2023 presidential election will take place  on February 25, 2023, a month after the impeachment. And in the event of Vice President Osinbajo getting impeached with President Buhari, the Senate President would act as President of the Federal Republic for a period of three months. Within that period, he will be required to call for a fresh election to replace Buhari by March 2023, a month after another President must have been elected to serve from 2023 to 2027. The President-Elect will now have to wait for Buhari’s replacement to hand over to him/her on May 29, 2023. This has reduced the impeachment threat to a hoax. It isn’t worth a brass farthing. Perhaps, this must be the reason one of President Buhari’s spokespersons, Mallam Garba Shehu, dismissed the actions of the opposition federal lawmakers as “babyish”. Mallam Shehu must have run a quick count on the fingers to know that indeed, the legislators had brought a knife to a gunfight.