Favour Ashe, the 20-year-old Nigeria’s fastest man from the recently held Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN)-organised trials for the World Championships and Commonwealth Games in Benin City, is excited by the feat even as he recalled his humble beginning. OLALEKAN OKUSAN writes It looked like yesterday when former national sprint champion Deji Aliu discovered Favour Ashe during the athletics meets organised by Making of Champions (MoC) in 2018. As a student of Otovwodo Grammar School, Ughelli at 16, it was obvious that Ashe possessed the talent to be among the fastest men in the world. Four years after at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium in Benin City, Ashe dusted some of the established athletes after running 9.9seconds to become Nigeria’s 100m champion. “Winning the national championship in Nigeria, being my first national title is a very big thing for me and I’m so happy,” the elated University of Tennessee freshman told NationSport. “Before coming to Nigeria for the event, I knew I had to run a very good race but I didn’t expect I was going to win the title because Nigeria has very fast guys. “So I will say I’m happy and grateful to God. If it was not for God, I couldn’t have done it; so I’m so grateful to God for me winning my first national title.” Amidst the array of stars in the men’s 100m final, Ashe admitted the tough challenge he endured to breast the tape ahead of others. “I was not under any pressure running with top athletes like Seye Ogunlewe and the rest because I came to Nigeria with the mindset of winning and I know I have the quality as I have been doing well since the beginning of the season,” he further explained. “And running with the kind of quality athletes will surely bring out my best. My initial plan was just to make the team and do well for Nigeria. “I was not out to beat anybody but when it happened, I felt good and great. “But I must admit that it was not easy at all to win. I just put myself together, execute my plans and something good came out at the end,” he added. Ashe moved to America to join the University of Tennessee in January this year and his performance has continued to attract headlines in the school; twice he was named Southeastern Conference (SEC) Freshman of the Week during the indoor season after running 6.58 seconds in his first-ever indoor 60m race at the Bob Pollock Invitational. The Ughelli-born sprinter also clocked 10.04 seconds to break Justin Gatlin’s (10.08) Tennessee freshman record on his way to winning 100m gold at the Southeastern Conference Championships while his time also moved him to second all-time in history behind Olympian and 2019 world 100m champion Christian Coleman. He continued on his conquests in America: “Since I came to America in January, nothing has changed for me as an athlete but I will say little things have changed because I don’t behave like the same athlete from Ughelli. “You have to think big because now you are running with the big guys, you are on scholarship; you have to stay focused; stay locked in so you won’t disappoint the school and your family. I will say yes, my mentality has changed. “With my mindset, I have been so locked in. I am just in America doing what is right. “You won’t see any distractions. So I will say that has changed for me since I came to America as an athlete.” Despite his success on the track, Ashe said marrying athletics with education is not as easy as a-b-c; adding he has to keep pace on the two fronts. “It is not easy combining school and sports in America,” he offered. “It is very difficult because you have to wake up; go to class and you have assignments to do every day. “Sometimes, when I’m practicing, I will be doing my assignment because nobody wants to fail, if you fail or you have a low CGPA below 2.0 that means you can’t compete in any competition. “So, every athlete needs to be on top in the school and in their athletics career. It is very difficult but with the help of my advisor and my coach, things are going smoothly for me in America. “No one can compare America to Nigeria. Everything is far different. “You wake up, pray to God, and go to class, sometimes I do have two classes a day. I go to class; come back and go to practice. Sometimes, I have to do my school work and you must also train every day. “So, I will say in Nigeria, I will have to go to school, come back, and walk back home and practice as well. So you won’t have sufficient rest in Nigeria to be focused but the American system is different from Nigeria. In America, we have a good gym and good training track, unlike in Nigeria. “In America, you have everyone supporting you which is different from the Nigerian system,” Ashe said. Already listed among the sprinters that will burn the track at the 2022 World Championships in Oregon, United States, optimist Ashe believed his presence would be felt in the forthcoming events. He continued: “I really have big expectations going to the World Championship and Commonwealth Games. “At least, when I go for the world championship, I hope to make it to the finals and I know that can be possible. I want to make the final and make everyone proud and to do this, I need to just stay focused by going back to America, practice and put myself together and come back with the World Championship medal. “The following week is Commonwealth Games and I am also going to do the same thing. “My coach and I will work together and he will manage me for the two events so that I won’t burn out the same energy.   Sports Festival to be expanded soon, says Dare     NPFL: Fierce battle against relegation     World Cup stadiums to be alcohol-free   “I hope to put the same energy into the two competitions to make Nigeria proud and everyone proud.” “I know there is something good for me at the World championship and running 9 seconds going to the world championship, I know something big is going to come from it, I don’t know when the time will be but I know something is going to come from it. “I just want to stay healthy, focus on my practice, and blast at the World Championship and Commonwealth Games,” he added. Considering the quality of sprinters that abound in the country, Yet Ashe believed with the necessary support for athletes, Nigeria can reclaim its lost glory in track and field, adding there is abundant talent in Nigeria. “Right now, I will say Nigeria is beginning to become the Nigeria we used to know before,” he enthused. “We have good sprinters now but they need is to manage us well if they really want us to be the best in Africa. “They need to manage us as athletes by doing what is right for the athletes. If it is supporting them with some money for practice and other stuff, they need to do that. “It is not just telling someone to come and run and go back. No, the athletes must be supported and if this is done, I think Nigeria will be on the top because we have many talents. “Apart from the Americans, Nigeria has more talents than the rest of the world so we just need to do what is best they can do. “In America, we compete every weekend and I will say, that is not too good because as an athlete, you need two weeks to manage yourself. “So, I will say if the AFN in Nigeria can organise competitions like a maximum of 15 competitions before the national trials that will go a long way to help the athletes. “Athletes need to know where they are at the start of the season and as the season progress, they need to be competing every time. Not like just staging two competitions and nothing else to do for the athletes throughout the year. “They need to give athletes competition for two to three weeks to make you know where you are and make you prepare for the next one. I will say AFN should work on that by giving athletes competition so they will know where they are. “Also, they (AFN) need to pay money to the home-based athletes going into a competition. They need to pay athletes money so that will give them the confidence to come for the next one. “I think AFN should work on this especially.” For Ashe, his dreams and aspirations are to exceed the feat of his role medals – Justin Gatlin and Christian Coleman. “My dream as an athlete was to come to America, which I had already accomplished. So right now, my dream is to run very fast, because that is my number one plan and to be among the top athletes in the world,” he said matter-of-factly.  “I want to exceed the feat set by my role models and fortunately for me, Gatlin has been supporting me since I came to America by giving me some words of wisdom. “I feel really cool with his ideas and I am moving forward in the sport. “I can’t dump Nigeria for the US because Nigeria is my country, I need to serve Nigeria. Despite the poor system right now, Nigeria is a better place because it is also difficult making the US team. I will say no, I can’t do that. “Nigeria is my country and I’ll compete for her anytime and wherever,” Ashe reiterated Meanwhile, the founder and Chief Executive Officer of Making of Champions (MoC), Bambo Akani, believed the 20-year-old Ashe still has a lot to offer. “Incidentally, it was Deji Aliu, as MoC’s Head Coach, who discovered Favour Ashe at one leg of our 2018 MoC Athletics Trials in Ughelli, Delta State, and made the call to recruit him to MoC Track Club in Lagos,” Akani said.“Ashe honed his talent at MoC from 2018 to 2021, progressing quickly from 10.72s to reach the 100m Semi-Finals at his first National Championships in 2019, to 10.40s in 2020, and then 10.17s and a windy 10.07 at the BetKing/3rd MoC Grand Prix in 2021. “He then secured 15 US Collegiate scholarship offers and eventually selected the University of Tennessee, where he has already won NCAA 60m Bronze & 100m Silver and the SEC 100m Title within just 6 months since arriving as a freshman in the US Collegiate system in January 2022! ” With  Ashe, I believed we’re witnessing the birth of a global star who could go on to become Nigeria’s most celebrated 100m Sprinter in history – perhaps Nigeria’s first-ever Olympic 100m Champion in the near future? “ What’s certain is that, at the tender age of 20, he now has a glorious chance to very quickly become Nigeria’s most prolific sub-10 second runner in history – Davidson Ezinwa did it four times, while Olapade Adeniken and Divine Oduduru have done it 3 times each. “We could very well see Favour Ashe eclipse all these records in the next couple of years, possibly even before the 2024 Olympics. “A new star has been born for Nigeria, and at MoC, we’re proud to have played a pivotal role in his potential emergence as a global sprint star at the next 2 Olympic Games and beyond – indeed MoC has helped to usher in a new generation of world-class sprinters for Nigeria. “With the continued support of Corporate Nigeria and Nigerians everywhere we look forward to repeating and scaling this model to unearth more stars for the nation! “Ashe’s story has proved that it’s possible to discover and develop young sprinting talent in Nigeria and take them to run sub-10 seconds in less than 4 years! “With more Corporates supporting Nigeria’s rising talents before they become famous, even more, future global sprint stars like Favour Ashe will emerge out of Nigeria for the Paris 2024 and LA 2028 Olympic Games!”