The President of the Nigeria Olympic Committee Habu Gumel has revealed that the two athletes who excelled at the just concluded World Athletics Championships-Tobi Amusan and Ese Brume – were on the sponsorship of the NOC. Gumel noted that the NOC as an organ of the federal government  has placed Amusan and Ese on a scholarship programme since 2018 with an annual stipends till date. Working in concert with the Ministry of sports and the AFN, the duo of Amusan and Brume are among 14 Nigerian athletes that have and will continue to receive NOC support till Paris 2024 Olympics. The Nigerian Olympics Committee (NOC) revealed the details of these scholarships in financial terms sourced from the IOC solidarity fund. “We have 14 of our notable grade A athletes under this scheme and we have never failed to give them the training and school grants,” Gumel said. “There is need to pay for all the staff members of each top athletes and that is why grants are essential.”   Joshua’s,Usyk rematch sets new pay-per-view record      C’wealth Games : Ecstasy as Birmingham 2022 begins today     Team Nigeria dazzles with Buga at welcome party   In addition, the Minister of Sports Sunday Dare came up with the Adopt-an Athlete initiative in which the Delta State Government adopted Brume while Ogun State adopted Amusan. It was also learnt that the two athletes are among the beneficiaries of monthly grants for the Olympic Solidarity scheme and the money for seven months have been paid so far as part of preparations for the 2024 Olympic Games slated for France. Investigations revealed that Amusan and Brume have received about 36,000 dollars in recent time apart from what they enjoy as adopted athletes of Ogun and Delta States. They have also collected monthly daily  up keep since January till date. “These are facts but we don’t have to roll it out at all times but it is important to note that the AFN, NOC and the FG are working round the clock to boost the fortunes of the country’s athletes who are our ambassadors,” Gumel added.