Long jumper Ese Brume and sprint hurdler Tobi Amusan top the list of 22-man contingent released by the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) for the World Athletics Championships in Eugene, Oregon, USA. Brume, a bronze medalist at the last edition of the championships in Doha, Qatar, will be aiming to become the first Nigerian athlete to win medals at two World Championships. Amusan, fourth in Doha will be seeking to become the second Nigerian sprint hurdler to win a medal at the Championships after Glory Alozie who won a silver medal in Seville, Spain in 1999. Also selected is shot putter Chukwuebuka Enekwechi who placed eighth in Doha, as well as sprinter Favour Ofili who made it to the semifinal in the 400m event in her debut in Doha. 19-year-old Ofili will be competing in the 100m and 200m events; she will be joined by fellow sprinters Rosemary Chukwuma, and Tokyo Olympics 100m and 200m semi-finalist, Grace Nwokocha. Nigeria’s fastest man Favour Ashe; reigning World U-20 200m champion Udodi Onwuzurike and reigning African Games champion, Raymond Ekevwo will compete in the 100m event while new national 400m hurdles record holder, Ezekiel Nathaniel will be making his debut in Oregon.   Ebuhi seals permanent move to Empoli     LMC orders final two NPFL Matchdays to start simultaneously     Galtier replaces sacked Pochettino at PSG   Another World U-20 champion, Imaobong Nse Uko will be making her debut and will compete in the 400m event and 4x400m mixed relay, while another debutant is Ruth Usoro who will be competing in the long and triple jumps. Sade Olatoye and Chioma Onyekwere are also on the team to Oregon and they will compete in the hammer and discus throws respectively. Godson Brume and Ushoritse Itsekiri will be competing in the 4x100m relay with the three others listed for the 100m. For the women, the rejuvenated Joy Udo-Gabriel will be joining the three sprinters listed for the 100/200m events and Amusan. Patience Okon-George, Knowledge Omovoh, Dubem Amene, Samson Nathaniel, and Sikiru Adeyemi will compete in the 4x400m mixed relay. The coaching crew include Kayode Yaya, Gabriel Okon, Esabunor Mavuah and Ken Onuaguluchi.