He has his eyes set on a specific target – revamping and setting on a high pedestal a conglomerate that once bestrode the country like a colossus. His aspirations may not be faulted. Back then, the firm – Odu’a Investment Company Limited resonated amongst Nigerians and beyond the country’s shores like other multinational conglomerates. Its Chairman, Otunba Bimbo Ashiru, explained that training and retraining are key to rebranding the conglomerate. He prides that the ball has been set rolling for a fresh breathe of life into the companies, especially having successful won a marginal oil field licence recently. Ashiru shared this and other issues about the economy in this interview with Group Business Editor SIMEON EBULU. Can you give an overview of the economy and how you plan to navigate through as a company? There is a global economic challenge, but people will still navigate and get things done properly. The COVID-19 epidemic, look at what happened and look at how some people became billionaires. Some people sat down, thought out of the box on how to make the best out of it and what did they do, they started logistics and they became billionaires overnight. I remember Odua was a conglomerate that was actually competing with the likes of the UAC of this world, but what happened? It was bad management at the end of the day. What I am trying to say is that economic challenges will not make us die. Just like if there is fire here today, we must look for a way of getting out of this place. So that is my vision and my point is that I do not think anything is difficult. It is just making the best out of it. The parameter of challenges of the economy and what we have done so far, we made about 150 per cent progress and do not forget that all of us assumed office on the seventh of in May 2020. I do not believe in the economic challenge or whatever it is, its there but people did navigate through it and it is just like when you have accident and people come out of it. It is how you get out of it is key. You cannot sit down and say there is a problem with the economy and say there is no way. I do not want to sit with GDP here, figures, parameters and so on, but the point is that three things we have been able to achieve. I mean what our forefathers were unable to do, we were able to get our oil license and the marginal fields and we paid for it fully. We have 42.86 per cent and it is called Beta marginal field and by God’s grace and God on our side, we get our license and we have started seeing people who are willing to partner with technical partners and from what we have seen Chevron was on that plate, we should be able to do a minimum of between 4000 and 5000 barrels per day and there is gas there too. Also, Premier hotel is as good as sorted out. We are doing a joint venture with a company which I don’t want to name now. We are having the final meetings today and we are going to sign off. They are spending over N10 billion to turn Premier hotel to another five star hotel and that is what we are looking out for. We have started talking to some people, this is a gold mine we are sitting on. Remember when Clinton came to Nigeria, he said Nigeria had no problem. He said our wealth is here tapping the floor and when I was in government, I used to tell people that Nigeria has no business being an import dependent economy. We are blessed with a lot of natural resources. Why should we take food out of this country raw and bring it back processed? Normally, when you go to the market, it is the seller that will determine the price of goods, but now the buyers are the ones dictating the price. Odua is a gold mine in the sense that we can bring resources we can bring so many things and with the caliber of people we have here we can do so many things. Are you going to run with the old gamut of the process you met on ground? Let me tell you, the old gamut that we met on ground, you will be surprised that they are useful and it is a system and let me tell you that an average Nigerian, when he goes to London, he follows the rules or regulations there. I have traveled with so many Nigerians and we all follow the queue, but once we land in Murtala Mohammed International Airport Lagos, you will be wondering if this is not the same person that was obedient in London. One of the things I am going to focus on is training. We will spend a lot of money on training our people and those people you call old gamut, we can blend them. If you give people right education, right training, they will understand and we cannot do things the same way and expect results. The only change in life is change. So, what I am saying is that I personally will not encourage that old people should be sent packing. We started it last two years and those people we know cannot fit into the system will be given opportunities to prove themselves and if they cannot, we will tell them to go and we would introduce new hands. When you give the people the right kind of training they will perform. We have this orientation in this country that when you take up a new position you hav to sack everybody; but no, because the people you are sacking maybe some of the best brains you can have. Odua had over 40 per cent  of Lafarge; we had permanent sites of two directors and the Chairman of Lafarge today is a director and representative of Odua, but what happened, they sold those shares and where are they today. We also had Odua telecoms and we spent N10 billion. I have been put to be the chairman of that committee to look into it and I spoke to those Lebanese and said we would deal with them to say that they are dealing with governments of six states. We told them that we would arrest them if they do not do things the right way so they have started coming back now to do the right thing. Once you do not compromise yourself, you can talk to them in a nice way and they know that we mean business so the point is that are by God’s grace our next four years, we are going to change so many things and we will go to individual subsidiaries giving one day notice. It will be difficult for you to do emergency turnaround and the reason why I am giving notice is because I want to meet you in the office.   Dad inspired my business acumen- J&C boss     ‘Nigeria losing $450m to offshore data storage’     Wine Nation woos wine lovers with sit-in-bar   Do you have any strategic investments in agriculture over the duration of your tenure? Is this an area where we should be expecting more deliberate announcements to be made? My focus even as a commissioner was agriculture that would lead to industrialisation, we must be able to grow. I will tell you this, the first ethanol factory in Nigeria, I happen to be one of the people that commissioned it and there is a farm in Ososa, which was producing over 250 tonnes per day and they were rotting away and immediately they started that those guys about 500 tonnes per day and the farm started smiling to the bank and it created jobs for 15,000 farmers. So, I told SwagCo to take advantage of the opportunities and because there are so many rich men in this country as they die, their businesses die with them. Our focus is that we want Swagco to go back to what Chief Awolowo and co did to achieve it and that is strategy. Now we have given them seed money and we do not need to have 100 per cent of Swagco. They can bring in investors and there are so many private equity firms that are ready to invest and they are working on that. Now to what the governor said, we will go to each state and look at areas where they have comparative and competitive advantage when it comes to agricultural products. Dairy farming he was talking about be rest assured that by next week or week after they are going to Akure to go and look at it.  Swagco is doing very well in Ogun State in terms of cassava, I think they are also doing well in Oyo State and in Osun State, they mine gold there and we are going to partner with them towards mining. We are going to take advantage of the commission and ensure that we do the agriculture we are talking about and focus on that, but you cannot achieve a lot in agriculture if you do not have access to infrastructure. Now that we have those tips, we will encourage them to do the rural roads where those rural dwellers will be able to bring in those goods and we are trying to see if they can get some funds from the CBN anchor borrowers programme, which is cheap funds; I know that they are talking with some banks to get some funds. In that area of agriculture, you need to invest more, we need to get proper infrastructure in place. So, those are the things we are going to focus on and I am happy that our governors are now supporting. All those are farmlands, if we put proper infrastructure, good roads and a proper security infrastructure in place for the Amotekun Corps, they are going to tell them to help the farmers so that our people from those areas would not be kidnapped. Information Technology (IT), it is the way to go in this world and we are looking at all strategic places and Odua has invested so much in IT infrastructure-wise. We are going to put that there but one thing is that despite the fact that we want to encourage the youths in technology, we do not want to encourage them to be involved in online fraud. So what we are trying to do is to use their brilliance instead of using it to defraud, but use it to create opportunities for youths. Some people are very smart and very active so that is one area we are focusing on. You are planning to create new businesses. Are you also thinking of revamping the existing ones? You see people get it wrong because some of these companies does not belong to Odua anymore because of some issues, and don’t forget that they have gone to the bank to borrow money and banks have acquired them, for example, the Epe Plywood Factory, one of the generals when they sold it to themselves, the guy just took it and took over, but you see we have a God that never fails and by the time he bought it, he has invested in all sorts of things. He did not register the company so the company was still in Odua’s name. it was just easy and we were able to get it back, we are looking for people that are going to invest and I have spoken to about two different people and for us to revamp anything now and like someone was asking about government and businesses, you see the government has no business in business. What they need to do is create the environment, so they have given us that power to be able to do so many things and they thought it was a joke. When we started this marginal field thing, they gave us a bill of $6 million to pay, but you will not believe it that the people that partnered with us, they call them to discourage the Southwest to take all the marginal fields maybe they thought if we have it, we would be dealing with them, so the people that got it are from the Southsouth, so we are not the only ones now. We have 48 per cent; we are not the only ones. What I am saying about all the companies and revamping them, we are going to revamp them if it is worthwhile and if it is not, we sell them off, because there is no point in investing so much money when you can divert and the Group Director of investment is doing very well. What will you like to be remembered for in the next four years? I want to be remembered and with my Board members, that our names be written in platinum and not in gold. To say when Bimbo Ashiru was the Chairman, we started producing crude oil and Odua has created that environment whereby agriculture has  led to industrialisation, Odua has created a high tech hub for our youths and all the states in the Southwest. We also want people to say that while we were there, this is the amount of jobs we created and these are the things we have left and by the time I leave, I pray that this Airport Hotel would have started a joint venture and Premier Hotel by God’s grace in the next few months we would have signed off and we will see the notice that we are closing down the place to renovate and revamp, so those are the things, focus and when Baba Awolowo and co before they died, they were the ones that did Western House, the cocoa house and all the Odua assets, somebody had the vision and they did it. General Gowon when he was Head of State, he built the national theatre, so people can do it; it is just for you to have the focus, be committed and have the vision and we will achieve and you can be rest assured that when I am leaving, I want people to say when I was Chairman, Odua’s profits improved drastically and the shareholders were getting billions of naira and not millions. I want people to say I distributed N1 billion which all the six states benefited from. Those are the things I want to be remembered for.