Court backed Delta Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Olorogun David Edebvie, has said his decision to seek legal redress was to prevent the opposition from capitalising on a “blindingly obvious situation” to win the 2023 Delta governorship election. Recall that an Abuja High Court disqualified Delta Speaker, Sheriff Oborevwori from contesting the governorship election over discrepancies in his academic credentials. He said most Deltans were bewildered by the outcome of the PDP governorship shadow polls, describing the polls as “wanton disregard of the interests of our party and mood of our nation”. “Undeniably, most Deltans received the outcome of the PDP Gubernatorial Primary with bewilderment and exasperation. To many, it appeared to be a wanton disregard of the interests of our Party and the mood of our nation. “Propelled by the inevitable pall of gloom that hung over Delta State and faced with the real possibility that opposition parties would capitalise on the blindingly obvious situation, I was left with no alternative but to challenge the outcome in the law courts, albeit reluctantly,” he explained in a statement. He praised the judiciary for the courage to overturn the “travesty” in favour of the will of the majority of the people”.   Sallah: Remain steadfast in prayers for peace – Gombe…     Eid-El-Kabir: Only peace, oneness can ensure stability of…     Eid-el-Kabir: APC chieftain urges Nigerians to reflect on…   He said his entire work career, both in the public and private sectors, have primed him for the task of leading the State to a new lease of life, growth and happiness. He warned that the victory should not be seen as a personal victory but as “victory for our great party (PDP) which is firmly rooted in justice.” Meanwhile, Oborevwori has appealed the judgment voiding his nomination as the governorship candidate of the PDP in the state. In a nine-ground notice of appeal, filed on Friday, he urged the appellate court to set aside the judgment given by Justice Taiwo Taiwo in a suit marked: FHC/ABJ/795/2022 by David Edevbie. He has also filed a motion on notice before the Federal High Court in Abuja for stay of execution of the judgment pending the determination of his appeal. Oborevwori faulted the trial judge for allegedly ignoring the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Modibbo Vs  Usman (2020) 3 NWLR (PT. 1712) 470, in which he claimed the apex court held that Section 29(5) of the Electoral Act, 2022 which is the same with Section 31(5) of the Electoral Act, 2010 has settled the law that cause of action only arises when the name of a candidate is submitted and published by Oborevwori argued that it is the law that information about a candidate’s qualification could only be challenged after the political party sponsoring the candidate submits the name and INEC publishes the name and the accompanying affidavit. He is also of the view that the constitutional requirement of Sections 177(a)and 182(1)(J) of the 1999 Constitution could only occur upon presentation of forged certificate to INEC and no other body or person, which has not occurred in his case. He added that Edevbie, who alleged that he made false deposition and presented forged documents in order to participate the PDP governorship primaries, ought to have been required to prove such criminal allegation beyond reasonable doubt.