A Security task force in Sarkin Pawa in Munya local government area of Niger state yesterday morning repelled terrorists’ attack on the military camp in Sarkin Pawa. Some of the terrorists were killed, it was said. Although the number of the terrorists killed was uncertain, The Nation learnt that the task force and the terrorists exchanged gunfire  for over two hours.  It was learnt that the terrorists, in an attempt to ambush the security men, invaded the military camp at about 2.15 am but met the security agents on alert. The security task force was said to have called for reinforcement when they discovered the terrorists were in their hundreds and the military sent in their men in response to the distress call, succeeding in repelling the attack. Sources stated that there was no casualty on the side of the security task force but the terrorists suffered heavy losses, it was  learnt. Spokesman of the Coalition of Shiroro Associations (COSA), Salis Sabo, confirmed this development while applauding the military for their alertness and gallantry in repelling the invasion.   UPDATED: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd     Ondo lawmaker, farmers protest alleged forceful farmland…     BREAKING: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd   “The energy and passion our security men are exerting recently in the fight against terrorists in our locality is unprecedented and has restored hope among the people. “By the report at our disposal, there was no casualty recorded on the side of the military but there is a strong indication that some terrorists were gunned down, although the number is yet to be ascertained”, he stated. A call to the Commissioner of Internal Security and humanitarian affairs, Emmanuel Umar, was unsuccessful when the reporter tried to reach him for confirmation. Police spokesman DSP Wasiu Abiodun said he was in a meeting and would respond later. Defence Headquarters (DHQ) Monday said troops of Operation Whirlstroke and Operation Hadarindaji in a fierce battle eliminated several bandits in Benue and kastina state. Director Defence Media Operations Maj.-Gen Benard Onyeuko made this known in a statement in Abuja. According to the statement “On 15 July 2022 based on credible intelligence, the troops conducted a raid operation at Chito general area, Sankera council ward in Ukum Local Government Area, Benue state and in the process, came in contact with suspected bandits. “Bandits on sighting the advancing troops, fired at the direction of the troops. Troops responded with heavy/superior fire power and neutralize 3 bandits while others escaped. Troops searched bandits’ hideout and recovered 18 motorcycles used by the bandits to terrorise the general area.” It added that, “troops of in  the early hours of 17 July 2022 conducted operation at PalaleJaja E-JAJA village in Jibia Local Government Area of Katsina state and made contact with terrorists. Troops engaged them with  and neutralised 2  terrorists.”