The ongoing demolition of illegal structures and shanties at Fegge, Onitsha, Anambra State continued on Monday despite the weekly sit-at-home order in the State. The taskforce team reportedly arrived Akunnia Njote waterways at Fegge area at about 11am where some structures erected on waterways were pulled down. A resident of the area, Obinna Emeka, while reacting on the demolition exercise, applauded the efforts of government in addressing the flooding menace with its attendant environmental degradation. “Because of the structures on the waterways, floods now pass through wrong channels, thereby destroying properties and risking of lives. “I just pray the demolition process will continue despite obvious obstacles being faced by the task force in order to achieve the target of urban renewal of the state,” he said. Meanwhile, state chairman of the Civil Liberties Organization (CLO), Comrade Vincent Ezekwueme has lamented return of refuse dump sites in the state less than a month of evacuation. He urged Governor Chukwuma Soludo to intervene in order to avert the health hazards and epidemic spread looming in the commercial city and other cities in the state.   Ganduje frees 90 inmates in celebration of Sallah     Nigeria under siege of terrorists, bandits – ACF     Nigeria faring better under Buhari – Presidency   He said, “Clearing of waste bins and refuse is inevitable and ineluctable to avoid flooding, health hazards, erosion , obstruction, destruction of roads and blockage of drainage channels and roads due to torrential downpour currently at its peak. “We commend the political will and relentless efforts of Governor Soludo to ensure safe, secured, clean and habitable homeland. “Notwithstanding, there are still refuse dump sites in various parts of the state that need and deserve urgent and immediate evacuation as they constitute a threat to lives and health of the citizenry. “We urge Governor Soludo to expedite actions towards evacuation and clearing of the refuse dump sites in various parts of the state”. Our correspondent observed that business activities remained grounded as markets, banks, schools, courts, roads, offices, among others were deserted. The ever-busy Onitsha end of the Niger Bridge, Onitsha/Owerri road, the notorious Upper Iweka axis, Ogbonmanu junction and Nnewi triangle were all deserted on Monday.