To stem the tide of partial or total collapse of buildings under construction in Lagos State, the Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development,  Dr. Idris Salako, has called on site supervisors to pay adequate attention to propping while carrying on their building projects. He made the appeal, following a review of construction activities in various parts of the state and the need to reduce to the barest minimum incidents of building collapse, especially buildings under construction. According to the commissioner, preliminary investigation into why buildings under construction often collapse revealed that most of the propping used during construction works were often not properly placed or, in most cases, experiences failure. Salako underscored the importance of proper placement of props, especially at the stage of casting, to avoid errors that could ultimately result into collapse.   UPDATED: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd     Ondo lawmaker, farmers protest alleged forceful farmland…     BREAKING: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd   He urged site supervisors, owners/developers of buildings and other relevant stakeholdersto pay attention to propping and observe the appropriate timing for casting to avoid building collapse. Apart from this, the commissioner added that projects board must be properly placed on every site, noting that a typical project board must contain the name of the owner/developers, proposed number of floors and use, names of professionals on site as well as their addresses and phone numbers. Salako maintained that names of artisans working on site, including iron benders, welders, bricklayers, carpenters and others, must be provided on demand with their passport photographs appropriately attached. Salako, who commended officials of Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA) for efforts to avert building collapse by removing identified distressed and defective structures across the state. He pledged that adequate measures would be taken to ensure that Lagos buildings were safe and habitable for present and future generations.