Netflix, some days ago, debut a documentary on the backstory of what is now globally known as afrobeats, a term coined to describe the Nigerian-cum-African version of hip-hop music. This genre leverages on the infusion of local languages in the lyrics of hip-hop songs. The documentary is by Ayo Sonaiya, lawyer and ex-artiste manager to King Wasiu Ayinde Marshall (K1). Sonaiya has followed this genre for years and he delivers a documentary that will be difficult to beat. In the documentary series, Sonaiya reveals that Abdulrasheed Bello, better known as JJCSkillz, was at a point made a millionaire by a UK-based group he was part of which did not want his infusion of Yoruba language in their songs. The release of this documentary coincides with JJC’s announcement that his seven-year-old marriage to celebrated actor and movie producer, Funke Akindele, has ended. This announcement saw nasty comments on the social media, with many casting JJC in the garb of a pauper who went into the marriage because of Funke Akindele’s money. Someone even likened him to the woman in the marriage. Funke, to this clown, was the husband because she was richer and more popular. But, the truth remains that JJC was and is not a nobody. Ask D’banj to write the story of his rise and he will have plenty to say about JJC’s role. The almighty Don Jazzy will be unfair to the truth if he writes his memoirs and leaves out JJC. The documentary on Netflix has enough video evidence of JJC’s roles in the lives of these two men whose influence on the afrobeats genre cannot be overemphasised. He touched their lives in London and even tried to get D’Banj a record deal and, when D’Banj made his first major hit, he put a call through to a record company which once rejected D’Banj because it felt it made no commercial sense to infuse African languages in hip-hop music. He mocked the record owner for his lack of foresight. His single ‘We Are Africans’, was an afrobeat anthem which endeared him to many Nigerians, though he was living in London when he released it. Before ‘We are Africans’, JJC was the producer for the British hip-hop record company and musical group Big Brovaz. He released his debut album, ‘Atide’, an experimental album with lyrics in English and Nigerian languages in December 2002. While the marriage lasted, both parties brought their special skills. They created great contests for television and the big screen. They co-produced ‘Industreet’, a television show about the Nigerian music industry. JJC also created a series with which Yoruba language can be taught. It is on YouTube and I have seen the video of a class of white kids using it to learn Yoruba. When marriages crash, there are usually so many undercurrents that outsiders are not privy to. Yet, people become relationship experts and try to rubbish one party or the other. There are complications they will never be able to grasp.   Dissociative identity disorder     A guide for loyalists     A mother and her daughter   Funke, also known as Jenifa, has done well over the years. From her days on the television series titled ‘I need to know’, to the humongous success of the Jenifa series, she has shown the superb stuff she is made of. The success of her ‘Omo Ghetto the Saga’ at the box office is a fitting crown. JJC was there with her on the Omo Ghetto project. Now, she has been announced a member of the prestigious and globally-renowned Academy of Arts. To deny her her crown will be a disservice to man and God. From my reading of JJC and after seeing that documentary, I cannot but agree with celebrated writer and culture journalist, Molara Wood, that he is a humble legend. A video of his and D’Banj on Twitter attests to this fact. These guys had great times and those are what I will remember and remember. When they celebrated their fifth wedding anniversary, Funke posted their photos looking cheery. She wrote: “Thank you Lord!! Happy 5th wedding anniversary to us my darling husband @jjcskillz. I love you Bolarinde. Thanks for all you do for us. May we live longer together in good health and wealth. Oluwa a wa pelu wa ati awon Omo wa! Oju o ni Tiwa lagbara Olorun. Amin. May we continue to have reasons to smile and celebrate In Jesus name!! Amen!! #happyweddinganniversary my boo’ @jjcskillz.” JJC’s response was a series of videos on social media to celebrate the mother of his twins. He had some words too: “Happy anniversary my love @funkejenifaakindele. 5 years down, a lifetime to go. May the almighty God watch over our family, home and business. Forward forever backwards never.” Underneath a video, which was a compilation of moments from their wedding ceremony in 2016, JJC wrote: “My best decision was to finally settle down with my friend @funkejenifaakindele now my everything. Against all odds we are stronger than ever. I look forward to the rest of our journey. I’m grateful for the years together my love. The only woman I know that can bring me out of my shell? I pray God continues to watch over us. This is just the beginning my queen.” In an interview, JJC said: “No special secret to our union than love and sacrifices. We are one of the celebrity couples in the country. It is lovely and we hope it inspires more people to believe in love and work to keep God’s union. For those experiencing marital challenges, my advice to them is to love your spouse like your siblings or parents. Two is now one. So, forgive and forget and take it a day at a time.” My final take: Funke is great. JJC is superb. Neither should be made to feel less than what they are. They have gone their separate ways but make no mistakes about it, the fact that they have a set of twins, which they welcomed in 2018, means they will forever have cause to be in each other’s space. And always remember that JJC was not a nobody before marrying Jenifa, and he is not a nobody now that he is no more with the talented actor and movie producer.