The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has dedicated an award it received from the African Union Commission (AUC) to President Muhammadu Buhari. In its first Africa SME Annual Forum held  in Cairo, Egypt, at the weekend, the African Union awarded the NDDC as the best “intervention agency for Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and Livelihood Support.” The AU’s acting Director for Industry, Minerals, Entrepreneurship and Tourism, Charles Newton Chiumya, said NDDC was recognised for the maiden award for supporting and promoting SMEs and livelihood in the Niger Delta and Africa, particularly among women and youths. The Interim Administrator, NDDC, Dr Effiong Akwa, who received the award, attributed the latest feat by the NDDC to Buhari’s commitment to rebrand and restructure the commission for optimum performance. Dr Akwa, who was represented at the event by his Special Adviser, Youths and former Commissioner in Bayelsa State, Udengs Eradiri, said the global recognition was an eloquent testimony that the NDDC despite its challenges had over the years impacted positively on the livelihood and economic empowerment of Niger Delta, Nigeria and Africa. He said while people expressed mixed feelings in Nigeria about the performance of the commission, global institutions and organisations could only appreciate the efforts of the NDDC to promote industrialisation through its support for SMEs. Dr Akwa said: “This award is dedicated to President Muhammadu Buhari for his commitment to rebranding and restructuring the NDDC for optimum performance. I feel elated because truly, the NDDC over the years has been contributing immensely without blowing its trumpet to people’s well-being. “Whereas some people back home throw stones at the NDDC, the commission’s positive impact is receiving global recognition. It means that the NDDC has actually done well in developing the Niger Delta and also creating an impact on the lives of its people. “The NDDC has done a lot despite criticisms. Let’s cast our minds back to where we were before the creation of the NDDC and where we are today. Communities that didn’t have roads before are now accessible by roads. “People now have access to health care, schools and most people’s lives have changed because of the NDDC. People who didn’t have water, light, and jetties have them because of the interventions of the NDDC.” Dr Akwa said the award would motivate the NDDC to do more for the Niger Delta by reviewing the qualities of its projects, programmes and infrastructures in line with the recommendations of the forensic audit report. He said: “The award will motivate the NDDC to do more and in doing more, we must target set goals. In the next five years, where do we intend to be in SME development? Where do we intend to be in terms of roads? What kind of hospitals should we be building?   Cross River monoliths to get UNESCO’s recognition     ‘Bayelsa winning war against drug abuse’     Abia police boss presents N21m cheque to deceased’s families   “The recognition is an awakening to the NDDC to know that people are observing us. The forensic audit report will help in this restructuring. The report has looked at the factors bedevilling the NDDC and has come up with recommendations. Those recommendations if implemented and a new board is constituted in line with the recommendations, we are very hopeful that the NDDC will be on the speed lane of progress.” Also, the residents of Udoda Community in Ahoada West Local Government Area, Rivers State, have protested continual attacks by thugs, military invasion and air raids in the area. Raising the alarm at the weekend, the Paramount Ruler of the community, Okaya Gospel, and the Youth President, Peter Francis, said over 30 indigenes, including a chief, had been killed since the raids and attacks started in 2019. King Gospel said the community was deserted because people’s houses and valuables were burnt and stolen in the various invasions and attacks. The king blamed surveillance contractors securing pipelines that crisscrossed the community’s forest for their travails saying that each time the people requested for basic amenities, their voices were quelled with attacks and raids. Giving the timelines of the attacks, he said: “Many people have died in these attacks and air raids. They used air raids to burn houses and kill innocent people. Recently they invaded this community. It has been happening since 2019. They came in 2019 with air raids. They burnt houses and killed people and rendered them homeless. “On May 27 2019, there was a raid in which people were killed. In November 2020 another air raid occurred in which a boy and other five people were killed. “On June 15 2022, another attack occurred again and a chief was killed. On June 27, they entered the community, and shoot and killed people. They broke doors and stole money worth N30milion and people were rendered homeless. Over 30 people have been killed in these attacks.” King Gospel insisted that the community had not committed any offence to deserve such maltreatment and called on the Federal Government to come to their rescue. “We need peace and we urge the government to come and renovate the burnt areas. We don’t have roads, lights, hospitals and basic amenities. People are dying of ill health in their hideouts. People can no longer sleep. They should call the military and the contractors to order”, he said. The Youth President, Peter Francis, observed that though there were illegal bunkering activities in the bushes, such illegal acts were not happening in the community to warrant air raids and the killing of innocent people. He asked the military and the contractors to direct their operations in the forest and stop venting their anger on innocent indigenes and destroying houses and properties. He recalled that in the last attack, unknown soldiers aided by some hooligans ransacked people’s houses and stole over N30milion belonging to different people in the community.