With  crippling inflation and the economy not looking good, students and parents are faced with dilemma over rent renewal as the industrial action embarked upon by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) hits 157 days. CHIBUIKE NWACHUKWU (UNN) reports.   It is no longer news that the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) went on strike since February 14 to make Federal Government  accede to its demands. Chief among the issues, which caused  the face-off  with the Federal Government, is the refusal of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration to deploy the University Transparency and Accountability Solution (UTAS), a payment system presented by the union as a replacement for the government’s controversial Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS), among others. Despite President Buhari’s   appeal to the union to sheathe its sword and return to their classrooms in the interest of “our students and the country,” the union reiterated that it would call off the strike only if government approves its two principal demands — accept UTAS and the renegotiated 2009 agreement. On Tuesday, the President also directed the Education Minister, Mallam Adamu Adamu to proffer solution to the strike in two weeks. However,  students across ASUU-affiliated institutions in the country continue to suffer from the prolonged industrial action by the union. One of such is Emeka Aneke, a 400-Level student at  Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State.He  was distraught over the delay the strike caused him. The strike had commenced in the second semester of the academic session, when he was about to  graduate. Having gained admission in 2017 to study a four-year course, he could not graduate last year because of ASUU strike then and the COVID-19 lockdown that disrupted academic activities. Fast forward to 2022, Aneke is at a loss regarding when he would graduate. He does not know when the ongoing strike would be called off despite efforts by government and other stakeholders. Thus,  he resorted to  helping  his mother in her petty business. Nevertheless, with the strike still on, students are getting calls from their landlords to either renew rent or quit their apartments.Aneke said his landlord called him three months into the strike to renew his rent. “Right now, I am  not in a haste to return to school because I do not have N110, 000 to renew my rent. If the strike is called off, I may not have a place to stay,” he said. Like Aneke, many students of ASUU-affiliated institutions across the country, who live in private hostels off-campus, are in difficult situation as the strike has forced them and their parents to pay for apartments they are not using. Those who live in school hostels, however, are safe from this problem as they pay both tuition and accommodation fees every session, therefore, are not required to pay another till the session ends. A student, who pleaded anonymity, said: “Available hostel facilities in the various public universities are inadequate as a result of the increase in population of students. The hostels can only accommodate a handful of students. The rest seek alternative in private hostels outside campuses. Besides the extended stay in school, caused by the regular and prolonged strikes by ASUU, students lose money paid to landlords of private hostels during strikes. Also, the safety of their properties in the uninhabited apartments are not guaranteed as thieves break into them.”   Lamentations from students and parents For Ifiok Etim, a 400-Level student at the University of Calabar, landlords do not care if ASUU is on strike or school not in session. “My landlord clearly told me that tenancy period is not determined by such issues,” he said. Etim, who had stayed in his rented apartment a little over a month before the strike commenced, is expected to renew his rent or move his properties. “My experience with my landlord left me speechless. I paid N120, 000 in January for six months, since I had just one semester to stay in school. In February, ASUU went on strike,” he explained. Continuing, he said: “First week of June, my landlord called to remind me that my rent will expire at month end. Right now, I am making arrangement to move my things, pending when the strike ends. There is  no need renewing my rent when I am  not sure the strike will end soon.” Similarly, Amarachi Azoribe, a 200-Level student of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), who paid six months rent in January said she is expecting call from her landlord. “My rent expired in June. My landlord has not called yet, but I know he will. I am already expecting his call. “Besides paying for a place I left months ago, I am also worried about the safety of my properties and some food items I left behind. I heard hostels were robbed,” she said.   Students urged to shun substance abuse     Tackling pelvic inflammatory disease     ‘We want a leader that ‘ll reposition…   She added that she will also have to clear electricity bill when ever she returns to the hostel. “Imagine paying for power you did not use because of the estimated bill practice in the country,” she said. Chioma Ikeh, another female student of the University of Nigeria, Enugu Campus (UNEC), could not hide her frustration. For this student, apart from the disruption of academic calendar, the industrial action will make her spend more money on rent than she had already planned. She said: “I paid my rent in December, 2021. I figured that since I am  in 300 Level, my rent will likely expire when I am doing my final year project.” She explained that if not for this strike, her next rent would have been for six months as she would need to spend more time in school to finalise her project. “Now, I have to pay another N200, 000 next year. Where would I see such amount? Honestly, the strike is frustrating,” she said. The mother of a 100-Level student, Mrs Bridget Onovo, who paid her daughters rent a week before ASUU declared the warning strike said it feels like she threw money away. According to her, her daughter was yet to move into the newly rented apartment when the strike commenced. “We paid N120, 000 for an apartment that has remained unoccupied. We have lost N40, 000 already and may lose more because we do not  know when it will end,” she said. Speaking on the pain of renewing the rent of a vacant apartment, she said:  “I called the landlord to inquire if something could be done about the situation as my daughter has not moved in before the strike commenced. But he said there was nothing he could do.”   Landlord and caretakers speak   Hostel owners and caretakers have sympathised with students, but said they built the hostels to make money and also need rents to maintain them. Some argued that it was not the fault of landlords that ASUU and Federal Government have refused to resolve their differences. A landlord in UNN, who refused to give his name and pleaded for his hostel not to be captured “for security reasons,” expressed concern over the plight of parents and their wards. He said it is unfortunate that people are financially burdened at a time of severe hardship in the country. He, however, called on parents that beg landlords to forfeit rents  to understand that landlords are also affected by the economic situation of the country. “They forget that landlords are also parents that may have children in public universities,” he said. “I have two children in different universities. The hostels they live are not mine. If I do not  collect rent from my tenants, how would I pay that of my children and take care of other needs?” he added. He further said  he would not demand rent from unavailable tenants, but he expects full payment when they return to school. The caretaker of Our Saviour Hostel in UNN, who refused to be named, insisted that running the apartment block was hard without sufficient fund so, “we cannot wait for the strike to be called off before we collect rent. Money is needed for essentials like water and light. “I have contacted all the tenants for the renewal of their rent. The ones who left school said they will pay when they return, while those still occupying their apartments have paid,” he said. He added that when the students  return to school, “they would also need to pay light bill since light billing is based on estimation for buildings without prepaid metres.” “If not for the basic amenities we provide in the hostel that requires money, we would have considered taking some months off for the tenants,” the caretaker  said. For Mr Ugwu, the caretaker of Royal Apartments, UNN, the ongoing strike is not the fault of students so, there is no need calling and demanding tenancy renewal from them. “We have tenants whose  rents have expired, but the fact is that they are not around. I cannot  call people I do not  know when I would see. So, we will wait till the strike is called off and they return to school,” he said. Parents, business owners and other stakeholders have continually appealed to both ASUU and the Federal Government to  resolve the issues for the sake of the students whose academic programmes has extended. Stakeholders  also called  for the end of the strike  in the interest of parents who are compelled to spend more than necessary in training  their children in the country’s public institutions.