Police in Plateau State have foiled a kidnapping attempt by men of the underworld in Bassa Local Government Area of Plateau State. The Command confirmed that five persons were killed last Thursday by yet-to-be-identified persons at Jos East LGA. According to a statement by the PPRO  of the Plateau State Police Command, DSP Alfred Alabo, “in his bid to continue to fight crime and criminality in Plateau,  the Plateau State Commissioner of Police CP Bartolomeo N. Onyeka psc (+), has recorded another milestone achievement by repelling an attack from men of the underworld in Bassa LGA. “On 22/07/2022, at about 2300hrs, a distress call was received by the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Bassa Division SP James Yekubu from a concerned citizen that some unknown gunmen suspected to be kidnappers were operating at the residence of one Mark Inkasu. “Upon receiving this report, the DPO mobilized his men and raced to the scene. “On sighting the patrol vehicle, the hoodlums in their cowardly manner started shooting at the police personnel. In return, our gallant DPO and team engaged them fearlessly.   Economy quakes under biting inflation     Business, consumers groan as inflation wreaks havoc     How CBN is fighting inflation   “On Sensing the danger that was about to befall them, the hoodlums escaped into a nearby bush with bullet wounds. “The CP, therefore, enjoined the residents of Bassa LGA to go about their lawful activities as normalcy has since been restored in the area.” He further thanked all the community within the area for giving the Police the timely information that helped in repelling the criminals. Continuing, he said: “on a sad note, the CP  wished to use this same medium to condole with the good people of Fobur town, Fusa Village and the families of the five persons who were killed by yet to be identified persons at Jos East LGA on the 21/07/2022. “He assures the families of the deceased and the entire local government that efforts are on top gear to arrest the perpetrators of the dastardly act for them to face justice.” The CP has also advised residents of Plateau State to get the phone numbers of security officers within their areas to ensure timely information is passed to the police and other security and law enforcement agencies to aid them respond promptly whenever there is an incident in their areas.