The Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission(INEC), Professor Mahmood Yakubu has assured that the commission is ready and prepared to beat the good record of Ekiti poll during Osun guber election billed for July 16th 2022. Yakubu made this known on Monday while inspecting non-sensitive materials at INEC office, Osogbo alongside Osun State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Professor Abdulganiy Raji with other officials of the commission. He boasted that INEC is prepared to deliver hitch-free exercise during the Osun governorship election. Meanwhile, he urged electoral officers of the commission to be proactive in their duties ahead of the election especially making appropriate plans for logistics before the exercise. Speaking to the officers of the commission in Osogbo INEC office, he said, “Identify the Registration Area Centers (RAC) so that on the election you can activate the centres as early as 6 AM. We should be waiting for electorates not otherwise. “Remember, Ekiti was good, but we want Osun to beat our record in Ekiti.   Niger orders suspension of mining activities in three…     Catholic Church denies abandoning victims of Owo terror…     Expectations high to see you deliver, Osinbajo tells new…   “We rely on you for transportation arrangement, early movement of materials, liaison with the security, moving them in good time…we must do this right. At the RAC centres, ensure adequate electricity so that they can recharge some of the equipment like the Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) and power banks so that on Election Day we can have a seamless exercise.” After the inspection of non-sensitive materials at the INEC office, Osogbo, he visited some polling units which include Salvation Army School, Alekuwodo, CAC Araromi, Osogbo, Oloti Unit 3, Iragbiji, and Ikirun. He later visited Laro Grammar school, Osogbo where corps members are been trained by the commission ahead of the poll. While addressing newsmen at CAC Araromi, Osogbo, he said, the inspection is to assess the level of preparedness of the commission ahead of the Osun state poll. He said, “We are here on readiness assessment of the commission to conduct the election on the 16th of July 2022 and also to visit some designated centres while we are doing a mock accreditation exercise. “In this particular centre, we achieve 100 per cent success for all those who presented themselves for accreditation so far. “Next week, I will be back in the state again to meet with stakeholders, then there would be signing of Peace accord under the auspices of National Peace Committee, so that is our mission.”