Chief Emma Eneukwu, Deputy National Chairman South of the ruling APC, has urged Nigerians to use the Eid-el-Kabir celebration to reflect on love and peaceful coexistence of the country. Eneukwu, who made the call in a Sallah message on Saturday in Enugu, also urged Muslim faithful to reflect on the things that would unite the nation as one leading to peaceful coexistence. He said that the Sallah season was one that enabled everybody to show love by making sacrifices that would foster peace and unity. According to him, Sallah should be used to multiply good needs by putting smiles on the faces of the poor, the needy, the dejected and homeless; irrespective of their relationship with us and not just our friends, family members and acquaintances. He said: “I celebrate with Muslims all over the world on this year’s occasion of the feast of Eid-el-Kabir. “This is a feast that we must use to rededicate the spirit of sacrifice to Almighty God and country through the exhibition of love, submission and obedience to the things that unite us as a nation.   Sallah: Remain steadfast in prayers for peace – Gombe…     Eid-El-Kabir: Only peace, oneness can ensure stability of…     Olunloyo in ICU, not dead, says family   “We must ensure that, we put the unity of our country first which does not come cheap; as it requires sacrifice through commitment. At this point in time, it is very essential for us to join our hands, pray with one voice and ask God for peace across the nation.” Eneukwu also stressed the importance of using this period to pray for enemies of peace in the country to be exposed; while urging Nigerians to keep on supporting the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. He, however, called for support toward the Presidential flag bearer of the ruling party, Sen. Bola Tinubu; while also urging Nigerians to jettison the politics of calumny ahead of the forthcoming 2023 general elections. “Nigeria is our country and we must work hard to make it habitable for all, by putting hands on deck to say no to terrorism, kidnapping, banditry, thuggery and other vices that reduce the progress of our dear country. “The rate of killings in the country is enormously excruciating; as human beings are being slaughtered everyday like animals. “We must use this period to reflect on the importance of giving value to human lifes as no religion supports killing of humans but rather encourages peace and oneness. “Prayers are required at this point in time to help the efforts of the security agencies in their quest to protect our lives and properties,” he said. (NAN)