Olufemi Ajadi is an entrepreneur, the Chief Executive Officer of Bullion Neat Global, a beverage and drinks manufacturing company, entertainment and security. He is a chieftain of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP). In this interview with Yetunde Oladeinde, he talks about the 2023 general election and takes you into his world, opportunities, initiating and running the Nigerian Youth Reoriented Movement amongst others. Tell us about your recent experience in politics and your political aspiration for the 2023 general elections? Earlier, I declared my interest in contesting for the presidency in 2023 on the platform of my party, the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP. I would like to let you know that I did not just wake up and say I want to be president. Yes, every free born Nigerian could aspire to any office he feels competent at, but my case is different. It came by divine direction. Some people may have heard my story before now, and it was during the June 12, 1993 saga, when people had to flee from their abodes in search of safety. You needed to see how my mother was dragging me along, a mere toddler because she was trying to take us to a place of safety. I had to cry out to my God because of the stress. I began to ask God why we were being exposed to such suffering and he told me that I had a role to play in Nigeria so that such sufferings would cease. That is the long and short of the whole thing. Why did you change from seeking the office of presidency to that of the vice presidency? One was because some party elders and my close associates intervened and offered advices. I have received many people, from within and without the party, urging me to also consider the vice presidency given some things that I may not explain here; as a loyal party man, I had to reconsider. Of all the political parties, why NNPP?     The vision is about a new Nigeria, and NNPP is about a new Nigeria. It is about a country where the citizens would be proud to live in. It is about a country where the citizens would enjoy all the respect of other nations when they visit, not that they would be asked to leave, or considered as criminals because of a negative reputation at home. I am talking about a country that would not be known for corruption, failure in government, the lack of electricity, the lack of infrastructure, killings, stealing and unemployment.   Nigerians ready to go back to good old days – Saraki     Osun 2022: Osun people have spoken says Ayu     Inside the Bauchi House of Assembly stalemate   It is about a country where all the youths would find employment when they leave school, where they would have the opportunity to contribute their quota to the development of the country. Only good leadership can make it possible because the country already has the other things that it needs to be great. Was there a formal meeting with the leaders of the party before you decided to align with them, and does this suggest that you have collapsed your association into the NNPP? All the time we were running the All Nigerian Youths Reoriented, I didn’t know about a party called the NNPP, not to talk of knowing that its principles and ideals tallies with ours.  However, it was God who arranged everything. It was somebody, one of the young people in our midst, who drew my attention to it one day, and I was surprised. I was thinking it would be like the other political parties. It was a different thing however, when we met the people behind the party. I met the founder of the party, Mr Boniface Aniebonam. Our members are excited that the NNPP is providing a vehicle for the realisation of the new Nigeria of their dream, and as a result, they are ready to do anything that would make the NNPP emerge victorious. My relationship with Senator Kwankwaso, our presidential aspirant is very cordial. I am somebody who finds it easy to relate with others. I am tolerant and I am a complete loyal party man. I am ready to expend any resource in advancing the course of NNPP. I am playing my role as God has ordained me. I believe that anyone who has the interest of the party at heart would do the same. Those rooting for me to be vice president see my potentials. I am from the Southwest, while the presidential candidate is from the North. And the founder of the party is from the Southeast. In terms of geopolitical consideration, there is already a balance there. I have youth on my side, vitality and vibrancy. I will be a very strong support to the president, standing like a bridge between the young and the elderly. Also, I have been a successful entrepreneur before now, employing Nigerians and contributing to the economy. I have business associates with whom I have already entered into some kind of agreement and collaborations which would impact on the key areas of the Nigerian society once we start it. All they are waiting for is the party to mount leadership and they would be ready to come in. I am ready to put forward for the development of this country, all the resources available to me. Your presidential candidate is Sen Kwankwaso, do you think he has what it takes to lead this country as president? In fact, all it takes; he is one of the biggest political assets of this country. I believe 100 per cent in his ability to lead this country. He was a two-time governor of one of the biggest states in the country, Kano, and did very well in office. Aside that, he had been a minister of defence and you know what that means? You do not give that ministry to somebody who does not understand what he is doing. Also, he has been an elected senator. That was why early in this journey, I led a strong delegation of party faithful to his residence in Abuja.