SIR: Religious intolerance and activities of extremists has become unbearably worrisome and is fast becoming an existential problem in Nigeria. In recent time, terror has been unleashed on Muslims and non-Muslim alike from different parts of the country. Some have even entertained the idea that a particular set of people and their religion are scheming to eradicate believers of other faiths and transform the country to their own creed. In the face of these multifarious challenges bedevilling the country and gradually pushing Nigeria to Armageddon, uniting people from different walks of the country has become a matter of urgency and emergency. It is only natural and human to expect anyone aspiring to become the number one citizen to have the capacity and strong determination to shun religious intolerance and show in his words and decisions his willingness, aptitude and readiness to enhance unity in a divided country. The All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, a Muslim has picked Senator Kashim Shettima another Muslim as his running mate in the 2023 presidential elections. The former Lagos State governor has maintained that his decision is based on the fact that Shettima has the talent, maturity, strength of character, and patriotism. Granted, Shettima played a crucial role in the emergence of Tinubu as the APC presidential flag bearer with his eloquent public speaking and assertiveness as the Director-General of Tinubu Campaign Organization. Should we really criticise and tongue-lash him that his decision is based on competence and not religious affiliation? Or maybe we all have subconsciously been affected by the spirit of religious bigotry and prejudice sweeping the nation. Has the Muslim-Christian, Christian-Muslim presidency and reductive demographics practiced over decades brought about peaceful coexistence and religious tolerance? Hardly. Unity of purpose requires that we forge ahead as one nation and recalibrate our political calculations to where competence and fairness matter more rather than religious sentiment that has become an impediment to our development and has held back our progress for too long.   Don’t plunge Nigeria into war     Buhari’s “enough is enough” statement to ASUU     Federal Polytechnic Ayede on a shaky start?   Today, we live in memory of the 1993 elections as our fairest electoral process, despite that Chief MKO Abiola and his running mate, Baba Gana Kinibe are both Muslims. We embraced them not on religious grounds but because of their strong will and ideas to pilot the affairs of Nigeria and bring about growth and development. How did religious bigotry creep into our polity, encumber and dissuade progressive change in Nigeria? It is necessary that for the country to be at par with other developed countries of the world, Nigerians have to be united and remain focused on socio-economic development. Recently, the country witnessed unrest, issues ranging from kidnapping, prison break, armed banditry, terrorism which have threatened the sovereignty of the nation. To surmount these problems is a collective task that must be won by all and sundry. Citizens must live in unity notwithstanding the diversity in culture, religion and tongues. Nigerians must at every opportunity insist that every great multi-ethnic and multi-religious nation has, through thick and thin, fought to realize the great dividends of diversity and pluralism. The struggle to ensure a more perfect federation is a lifelong enterprise to which every well-meaning Nigerians must be committed to. Nigerians should see themselves first as a Nigerian citizen thereby putting aside ethnic sentiments which will not do the country any good. It is imperative to note that most notable inventions in the world were discovered by mistake so Nigerians should not see the amalgamation of the country as an error, but as a formidable force that will carve a niche for themselves to be able to survive as a nation. Instead of harping on some Muslim-Muslim ticket and focusing on religious affiliations of those in public offices, now is the time for every Nigerian to come together as one indivisible nation and see the country as one to champion the dreams and aspiration of the founding fathers that will foster national unity in the country. <obohjosh90@gmail.com>