The Tinubu Network Organidtion (TNO) in Osun State has declared its readiness to work as a formidable team for the actualisation of the second term bid of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. This declaration was made during a meeting of the leadership and local government coordinators in Osogbo, the state capital. Coordinator Jimoh Olorede said Oyetola’s performance, evident in his numerous achievements despite challenges that would have limited his capacity, endeared the governor to the group. He listed construction of over 40 roads of more than 500 kilometers, provision of social amenities, quality health services, social interventions, promotion of small and medium enterprises, prompt payment of workers’ salary, and unfailing maintenance of recurrent expenditure obligations, among other achievements, as reasons for the group’s resolve to boost votes via mobilisation. Olorede promised the organisation will use the strength of its population in thousands in Osun to increase huge votes that would be recorded for Governor Oyetola.   I’ll not let you down, Adeleke tells Timi of Ede     Four injured as PDP, APC supporters clash in Ede     Lagos steps down new abortion guidelines   He added: “Since the reception of the group by the APC Chairman, Prince Gboyega Famodun, in January, the organisation has been observing Oyetola’s style of governance, and we discovered he has development-orientation and patriotic disposition, similar to our principal’s, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, which justified our resolve to work for his re-election. “Ensuring Governor Oyetola’s re-election by increasing the volume of his votes with our active participation before and during ballot casting on July 16 is our resolve as a group, and we decided to do this because he deserves it.” The Coalition of Support Groups for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu (COSGABAT) has deployed its 300 groups to rally support for Governor Oyetola’s victory. Coordinator Akande Olatunji, whoa ddressed reporters yesterday, said: “We declare our unflinching support for our amiable Governor of Gboyega Oyetola for a second term in office. Oyetola’s result-driven style of leadership upon his assumption in office since 2018 remains standard and significant. These qualities have encouraged us to place colossal worth support for Oyetola’s re-election. “We are using this medium to reciprocate the gesture to Governor Oyetola for his second term in office by mobilising 300 groups of this coalition across Nigeria to rally support for him because of his excellent performance and transformation agenda in the first four years in office.”