Disturbed by the rising spate of insecurity nationwide, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) North-West has called for proactive measures on the part of security agencies in addressing the challenges. The party also appealed to all the security agencies to live up to the expectations of Nigerians by bringing an immediate end to the menace of insecurity. This call was contained in a statement after the last lap of the zonal fact-finding tour of the seven States in the region in Katsina led by the APC National Vice Chairman (North-West), Dr Salihu Lukman. The increasing rate of the insecurity situation in the country hit the hilt on Wednesday with opposition Senators threatening to move for the impeachment of President Muhammadu Buhari.   Oyo declares Monday work-free for Hijrah     Ngige’s community ‘at war’ over…     Kanu’s lawyer accuses DSS of detaining staff since 2021   But in a statement in Abuja by the Zonal Publicity Secretary, North-West, Malam Musa Mailafiya Mada, the party said security challenges facing the zone took a centre stage in its tour, especially in Sokoto and Zamfara States where the participants urged for proactive measures. It said: “The Federal Government has been very responsive to the needs of security agencies in the country, party leaders appeal to all the security services to live up to the expectations of Nigerians by bringing to an immediate end the menace of insecurity ravaging every part of the country. “Like in Sokoto and Zamfara, security challenges facing the Zone took a center stage where the participants urged for proactive measures to address challenges of insecurity in every part of the country.” The statement added: “The North-west zonal leadership of All Progressives Congress (APC) under the National Vice Chairman Malam Salihu Lukman was in Katsina state on Wednesday 27th July, 2022, and met with the party’s stakeholders led by His Excellency Governor Aminu Bello Masari to round up of the fact-finding tour which began in Kebbi State on Monday 4th July 2022. “The tour which covered all the seven states of the zone met the party stakeholders and leaders in the ancient city of Katsina the Katsina state capital and discussed numerous issues concerning the party affairs as usually transpired in states already visited.”