EMMANUEL: Good day, my name is Emmanuel. Can you help us intervene in retirees’ affairs with Premium Pension? Their desk officers seem not to be updated with the new regulations on retirement benefits. I was told the regulations haven’t been sent to them from PenCom. They claim that they are yet to be given the go-ahead to verify this year’s retirees. They are not advising the retirees on the documents to present as specified in the new regulation. Does it mean this year’s retirees can’t verify? Also, I will like to know if those under the Programme Withdrawal enjoys life pension payment or if annuity gives life pension payment? ADESHINA: I was enlisted into the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) in 2016. Since then, I haven’t received my pension. I have made several complaints to no avail. I transferred my RSA to NPF Pension Limited from Trustfund Pensions Limited and my balance in the later has been transferred to the former. However, no remittance from my employer has been made. Kindly assist me. OJEBOLA:  I retired on November 13, 2013. I submitted my documents to LASPEC on September 23, 2021. My PFA is Stanbic IBTC Pension. I am tired of repeated calls and this hotline never goes. My pension benefits are long overdue since November 13 2013. My repeated calls at LASPEC, Alausa are not yielding any results. Kindly find out the cause of the delay. I will be elated by your prompt response. IBITAYO:  My name is Ibitayo. I received a call from Stanbic IBTC on June 1, this year after my earlier complaint in The Nation on May 25, 2022, saying that I could take more than 25 per cent of my pension. This is after eight months of about 20 visits to their offices. Stanbic IBTC Pension betrayed my trust by hiding vital information from me. I was in in their office on June 1, 2022 and was told there is a new policy that allows me take my whole pension if my monthly payment is less than N10,000. They informed me that I didn’t have to fill any form for the new payment scheme, and that I would be communicated in due course. Once bitten twice shy, they say. PenCom, please help me. Thank you. ABUBAKAR: Hello, my name is Abubakar. The President’s approval of outstanding pension stated something about 2014, but my father died in 2013. Will his death benefit also be paid? And, please, what is the consolation and how long does it take on the average. Thank you DR SAHABI:  Hello, I write to complain that the pension of my husband, Dr Sahabi, who died in 2013, is yet to be paid. His PFA is Pal Pension. He worked at FMC. Thank you. INSPECTOR MADUFOR: Good day, I retired in 2017. Kindly advise me on the action to take for my pension to be paid. THE NATION: The newspaper will intervene. Therefore, EMMANUEL, ADESHINA, OJEBOLA, IBITAYO, ABUBAKAR and DR SAHABI should look out for the newspaper next week for responses from PenCom.     PTAD complaints and solutions     How to access pension benefits under CPS     Lagos pays 11,349 pensioners N42b in three years   ANNONYMOUS: I am a police officer. I want to know if Pencom has a branch office in Ibadan, Oyo State. I would like to make verification. PENCOM: Please be advised that PenCom does not have an office in Ibadan. However, our nearest office in Lagos is at 88A, Oduduwa Crescent, Ikeja GRA. ANNONYMOUS: I retired in June 2016 from Federal Polytechnic, Bida. I was paid my benefits in July 2017 through my PFA, Premium Pension. I then transferred to Leadway for annuity. I am being owed 24 months. The Federal Government recently said it had released money to pay the 2.5 per cent, out of the 10 per cent it is owing. When and how will this money be paid? PENCOM: Please be advised that if the amount payable is less than N100,000, it will be paid directly into your bank account. However, for payments above N100,000, you are advised to purchase a second annuity from a Retiree Life Annuity (RLA) provider. UWEM: Good day, my uncle, Mr. Godwin, was a teacher at Poly Staff School, Ibadan for many years. He was compulsorily retired five years ago without gratuity. At present, he is languishing in hunger. He has turned a street beggar and his children roam the streets of Ibadan in search of what to eat. Every effort to meet the Provost of Ibadan Polytechnic proved abortive. Please, sir, how can you help to assist the elderly man and his suffering children? PENCOM: Please provide your uncle’s PFA and RSA PIN details to enable the commission investigate further. ANONYMOUS: Good day, I will like to know how long it takes to get PenCom’s approval for payment of accrued rights for someone who died in active service. PENCOM: Please note that the payment of accrued rights of deceased employees of treasury-funded Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) are subject to release of funds by the Federal Government.