ON Wednesday, July 27, music enthusiasts, artists, and stakeholders convened at the Lagos Marriott Hotel, Ikeja for the first edition of the Kennis Music Bites. The auspicious event took the form of a musical conference with the Kennis Music team unveiling some of the scheduled activities of the music powerhouse in 2022 and beyond. The musical conference tagged ‘The Next Episode’ had a music discussion segment and engagement, a new brand unveiling, social gifting, and payment platform that leverages music and all logic of engagement to celebrate mobile consumers, ultimately creating wealth empowerment for Nigerians and the community through entertainment. Led by the founder and Chairman of Kennis 104 FM, Kenny ‘Keke’ Ogungbe, the event had in attendance dignitaries like Chief Mrs. Mojisola Dokpesi, Olufemi Bakre, Paul Ogeah, Dayo D1 Adeneye, ID Ogungbe, MCSN boss Mayo Ayilaran, AFRIMA boss Mike Dada, Kingsley James, alongside entertainers such as Mr. Macaroni, Praiz, Eedris Abdulkareem, Zaki Adzee, Felix Duke, Nasty Blaq amongst other music stakeholders. The trio of Keke Ogungbe, D1, and ID took a bow after unveiling some of the activities of the Kennis Music conglomerate including the Kennis Music Festival, KinQs of Lagos search, and Music Bank platform amongst other opportunities.   EFE IRELE: No male admirer ever thrilled me     Burna Boy: Why I have no kids at 31     Sola Sobowale: You must take responsibility for your…   At the event, Keke Ogungbe announced the collaboration between Kennis Music and affiliate brands including Parallex Bank, and The Place to produce a gold card that will serve as a multipurpose lifestyle debit card and which can be used at different places. Keke Ogungbe, the brainchild of the event noted that “with the Music Bites conference, it is our belief that by the end of the day, participants have been able to fully harness the new and existing opportunities available in the music space and entertainment industry as a whole.” On his part, ID Ogungbe analysed the plan to hold the 22nd edition of the Kennis Music Festival and collaboration with leading music acts that will attend the event. “We would be holding the Kennis Music Festival and this will come in parts. The first will be Sunset Over Lagos, Sunset Ove Abuja, Sunset over Port Harcourt and the last will be Sunset over Campuses where we will be taking over the Nigerian campuses,” he explained. He also revealed the plan to stage the KinQs of Lagos. Explaining the idea behind the KinQs of Lagos, ID Ogungbe said the search for the biggest Nigerian entertainer – musician, comedian, and actor – will be determined by the fans while the three top crowned KinQs will be rewarded with N1 billion, N500million and N250million respectively. The smart alec, who is widely referred to as the prof, also revealed Kennis’ music entry into music distribution. Ogungbe was quick to point out that the music company isn’t going into competition with existing streaming companies but will be distributing music for several music acts using new technology and means.