The Chairperson of the Nigeria Women Football League, Aisha Falode, has led  tributes for late board member of the NWFL and president of the Female Football Interest Group, Henrietta Ukaigwe  as women’s football stakeholders across the country marks her two-year remembrance today. Falode, who served on the same board with Ukaigwe before her death on  14th July 2020, said women’s football  lost a great gem. “She spent most parts of her life on the development of women’s football in Nigeria both at the league and  national teams levels,” Falode said. “She contributed in no small measure to move women’s football to the next level. “ There is no doubt that, the massive developmental works and massive commitment to ensure, the game is accepted in all nooks and crannies of Nigeria, contributed In no measure to get the women’s league to where it is today. “Henrietta, left us at the time Nigerian Women’s Football needed her so much. “Though, she is no more today, her great works are still pointers to the revolution witnessed in the women’s league over the years.   Osimhen returns to Napoli for preseason     WAFCON 2022 Cracker: Ex Falcons goalkeeper dismisses…     African Cycling Championship begins today in Abuja   “She fought for the general acceptance of  women’s football, players’ welfare and equal treatment with the men’s folks. She was against the preferential treatment given to the men’s footballers compared to the women’s. “ It was however a great delight for her to see in her lifetime, the equal bonuses and allowances the Nigeria Football Federation paid to the Super Falcons players at the Ghana 2018 Women African Cup of Nations. “ Falode, who is the Leader of Delegation of the Super Falcons team to the Women’s African Cup of Nations, stressed that, Ukaigwe is sorely missed  as Nigeria targets a record extending 10th title in Morocco. She said: “She will forever remain in her hearts. If she was not gone, she would have been in Morocco with us supporting the Super Falcons. “Henrietta witnessed all the nine Nations Cup titles won be the Super Falcons. And this edition is the first WAFCON tournament she is not witnessing and that is why we are sad that she is not with us here in Morocco to see the Falcons win again. “She also watched the Super Falcons in all editions of FIFA Women’s World Cup since 1995 in Sweden. “She was an embodiment of women’s football not only in Africa, but also at the international stage. She served as a long term Media Officer of the Super Falcons, before graduating to serve as a General Co-ordinator of the national women’s senior soccer team. “Very soon, we shall be instituting a merit award and football tournament in her memory,” Falode added,