YESTERDAY’S formal presentation of Senator Kashim Shettima as the running mate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, presented the standard-bearer another opportunity to shed light on why he made that choice. The dust raised over his choice has yet to settle since he picked Shettima on July 10. Some of his political opponents and even friends perceive his choice as audacious. Really? What is the big deal in Tinubu being a Muslim and his running mate also of the same faith? He is virtually being skinned alive politically today any corner he turns to because he chose a fellow Muslim and not a Christian as his running mate. Nobody is talking about him not picking an atheist or an animist or a traditionalist, for that matter, as his running mate. Nor about Shettima’s capability. Why? Is it that competency no longer counts? Is it that people of no faith are not eligible to be presidential running mates? Or is it that they are not Nigerians who are also covered by the same provisions of the Constitution which some people are today throwing at Tinubu. Lest we forget, the Constitution, which is our organic law, does not discriminate against any Nigerian, no matter his faith, from becoming the nation’s leader. What it frowns at is denying any Nigerian from holding leadership position on the basis of his ethnic nationality. The Constitution is clear on this provision. It does not rate faith above ethnicity, but that is not to say that it does not warn against religious discrimination. What it did not do is to raise religion to the height that some people have taken it to because of politics. The framers of the Constitution knew the dangers of playing up religion and that is why they warned in Section 10 of it that: The government of the federation or of a state shall not adopt any religion as state religion. Nigeria is a secular state with a multiplicity of faith but the well known two are Islam and Christianity. We are lucky that those who profess other faith are not religious fundamentalists as some of us who pride ourselves as good Christians and Muslims are. If they were, this country will not be at ease today. I will not be saying anything strange if I submit that most of the problems we face today are caused by either those who are Muslims or Christians. Look around you and see those accused of one crime or the other. Is it corruption? Drug trafficking? Bank fraud? Robbery? Kidnapping? Banditry and terrorism? You name it; those involved are usually people of faith. If we really imbibe the teachings of our faith will Nigeria be in a mess today? Our problem is not Muslim-Muslim or Christian-Christian or Muslim-Christian ticket. Our problem is us as a people. We wear our faith on our faces and as a badge of honour without following its tenets. We want to be seen as good Christians and good Muslims clutching our Bible and Quran in public when the thoughts of our hearts are evil. The devil laughs when he sees us behaving like that. The holy books teach us to flee from the devil and he will flee from us, but many of us choose to sit with him when it pays us to do so.   Looking ahead in time     Adieu, great dad     Their Lordships’ revolt   It is when their aspirations are not met that some politicians play the religion card as they are now doing with the Muslim-Muslim ticket. Unfortunately, many who know next to nothing about politics have joined them in crucifying Tinubu for picking a fellow Muslim as his running mate. Did they stop to ask themselves what other choice Tinubu has, if he wants to win the 2023 presidential election, before descending on him for going that route? Elections are about numbers. It is either you have or do not have them. The paramount consideration for Tinubu in making his choice is how do I win the election? Is it with a Muslim or Christian running mate? The numbers available and those in control of the figures pointed him in the direction to go. By so doing, he did not breach Section 14 of the Constitution which speaks of principles of democracy and social justice. Section 14 (3) stipulates that the government of the federation shall be composed in a manner to reflect the federal character of Nigeria, promote national duty and also command national loyalty, thereby ensuring that there shall be no predominance of persons from a few states or from a few ethnic or other sectional groups in that government or in any of its agencies. Tinubu has not done anything to offend this provision. It will therefore amount to standing logic on its head for some legal pundits to accuse him of doing so. They are lying with the Constitution. But thank God we all have access to the document.   It prides itself in being a one-customer bank. This is its payoff line which it finds difficult to live up to. I found this out the hard way. Since June 1, I have been trying to get Sterling Bank to refund the N7000 debited from my account when I bought petrol at an outlet. The retailer was not credited. So, I had to cough out another N7000. Meaning that I was debited N14,000 for a N7000 transaction done through PoS (Point-of-Sale). In order to get back my money, I have become a regular caller at the Sterling Bank branch at Matori where I lodged a complaint on June 2. Since then, it has been one story or the other. The latest is that the merchant, who incidentally uses a Sterling PoS, has refused to make the transaction receipt available so that my account can be credited. Is that my fault? Does the bank not have control over its PoS agents? Eventually, this matter may have to be resolved by the central bank. Did I hear you ask: so wa ju N7000 lo ni? Ko juu lo! All I need is my money.