David Alaba could win another title with Real Madrid in a month’s time, as Los Blancos will dispute the UEFA Super Cup on August 10 against Europa League winners Eintracht Frankfurt. David Olatokunbo Alaba is a serial winner. For Real Madrid, the signing of  Alaba last summer was as much of a ‘no-brainer’ as you get in football. The defender is a brilliant player, he was the perfect age, and available on a free transfer after winning it all at Bayern Munich. Alaba is heading into his second season at Real Madrid. He ended the first in extraordinary fashion, winning the Champions League, LaLiga Santander and Supercopa de Espana. The Austria international is a winning machine, a player who has been idolised by Real Madrid fans for his impressive first season, and for the historic image of the chair celebration after the comeback against Paris Saint-Germain. Alaba could win another title with Real Madrid in a month’s time, as Los Blancos will dispute the UEFA Super Cup on August 10 against Europa League winners Eintracht Frankfurt. The game will take place in Helsinki, where Alaba will face the German side in his bid to win his third Super Cup title after having won two with Bayern Munich against Chelsea and Sevilla. Alaba’s collection of titles is impressive, as he left Germany with 27 titles, taking his trophy tally to 30 in Madrid. He is not the Real Madrid player with most titles won, because Karim Benzema has more than three dozen, but Alaba is the player who has won at least one trophy per season for the most campaigns. In the 2020/21 season, in which Real Madrid went without a trophy for the first time since 2009/10, the Austria defender won his last Bundesliga title, as well as the DFL-Supercup and the Club World Cup.   Bayern Munich’s Lewandowski joins Barcelona for €50m     Lewandowski bids Bayern goodbye, nears move to Barcelona     Chukwudi emerges President of Amputee Football Federation   The 2011/12 campaign was the last one in which the Bavarians were left empty-handed after being beaten losing both Bundesliga and DFB-Pokal to Borussia Dortmund. Since then, Bayern Munich have not ended a season without celebrating a title, making them the European giants with the longest title winning streak of all time. Alaba has won a league title every season since 2013, as Real Madrid’s 35th LaLiga Santander trophy was the tenth in a row for the Austrian centre-back, who had previously won nine in a row with Bayern Munich. Sport points out that he has a ridiculous win rate of 69% in the Champions League, the best record of any player – level with his former teammate Thomas Muller. That is 71 of the 103 he’s played, and having only just turned 30, he could easily rack up another 50, potentially improving that incredible record even further with Antonio Rudiger and Aurelien Tchouameni joining him this year. Last season, David Alaba and Eder Militao formed a centre-back duo that was an essential part of Carlo Ancelotti’s bid to lead Real Madrid to European and LaLiga glory. However, Real Madrid have signed Rudiger on a free transfer, which means that Alaba could play several games at left-back. When it comes to defending, it is clear that Ferland Mendy is one of the best full-backs in the world, but when it comes to attacking, Alaba’s contribution could be important. The Austrian’s versatility is a plus for Ancelotti. As will be the fact that Alaba will be one of the few Real Madrid players who will not have the 2022 World Cup on the back of his mind in the first stretch of the season.