Presidential candidate of Nigeria Rescue Movement (NRM) Felix Johnson Osakwe has promised to rescue Nigeria from underdevelopment, if elected. He promised to restructure the country. Osakwe was nominated as the party’s standardbearer  in Abuja, with  Ambassador Yahaya Kyabo Fagge his running mate. NRM National Chairman Isaac Chigozie Udeh said their names have been forwarded to Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Osakwe said his party will  rescue the nation from inherent imperfections in the polity. He said if given the mandate, his administration will harness  diversities to unite the people, promising to end ethnic agitation, poverty-induced banditry and security, poor power supply and unmanageable infrastructure. The Ndokwa Delta State-born preacher, who was presidential candidate of Democratic Peoples Party (DPP) in 2019, said Nigerians should rise above ethnic cleavages. Nigeria, he said, had suffered a dearth of purposeful leadership, which NRM has come to provide. “On assumption of office, our party shall bring all stakeholders to the table to brainstorm on a new egalitarian Nigeria and all facets of the federation shall be structured to assuage the ill feelings of minority ethnic tribes…   UPDATED: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd     Ondo lawmaker, farmers protest alleged forceful farmland…     Senate adjourns over Rep’s death as Ndume loses father   “Our administration unlike what we see every day, wouldn’t fund corruption. Our children shall not stay a day at home for reason of incessant strikes … “Our mandate will include restructuring Nigeria to build hope in the people where nepotism will be killed and profligacy expunged from our polity. “We have a serious political organisation that will douse the current tension created by poor governance in our drive to renew hope in Nigerians. “The enemies of our aspiration to lead Nigeria are the reactionary elements who are against change in norm. “I crave character rebirth in a new Nigeria where the citizens enjoy equal opportunities without let or hindrance. “Our political movement focuses on aggressive and accelerated growth and even development of human and material resources in all parts of Nigeria. “We shall ensure that our national integrity and solidarity is restored to give every Nigerian a pride of place in the global community…’’ In 2004, Osakwe was United States Coordinator of Land Markers International, a body that promotes healthy relationship between United States and Nigeria. He was appointed International Ambassador for Peace by Universal Peace Federation, an organisation with general consultative status at United Nations Economic and Social Council (UNESCO). “Having sojourned in the largest and most civilised democracy in the world for more than a decade, the time has come for me and my team to take the mantle of leadership of this country in 2023,” he said.