The National Industrial Court in Abuja has been asked to reverse the sack of 114 lecturers of the Kogi State University (KSU). The request is contained in a suit the lectures filed through their lawyer, Femi Falana (SAN). At the last hearing of the case on Friday, the court, presided over by Justice Rakiya Haastrup admitted 345 exhibits, mostly documents, tendered by claimants’ lawyer, Femi Adedeji (who held Falana’s brief). While tendered the exhibits through the Chairman, ASUU, KSU branch, Dr Daniel Oluwagbemiga Aina, Adedeji said the documents formed the fulcrum of the case of the 114 lecturers against their unlawful sack by the installation. Adedeji urged the court painstakingly examine all the exhibits and order the restoration of the lecturers to work in the interest of justice and fair play. Lawyers to the defendants Wisdom Caleb (for the school) and Abbas Kamarudeen (for the state’s Attorney General) said they would decide whether or not to object to the admission of the documents at the final address stage. Justice Haastrup while admitting the exhibits fixed October 24, 25 and 26 for the cross-examination of the witness.   IPOB demands Senator Bulkachuwa arrest     Fayemi sacks political appointees     FEC wishes Osinbajo quick recovery   Last Friday’s proceeding was witnessed by the North Central Zonal leaders of ASUU, led by the Chairman, Dr. Chris Piwuna. The suit by the lecturers, comprising about six Professors, has as defendants, the Kogi State University and the state’s Attorney General. The Kogi State University (KSU) had, by a letter dated August 14, 2017, with reference No. KSU/R/EST/EMP/SS/Vol 1, purportedly terminated the appointment of the 114 lecturers on grounds of reorganization of the institution. The lecturers are, in the suit, praying the court to among others, declare the termination of their appointments as illegal, null and void on the ground that it violated the extant provisions of Chapter 6 paragraph 6.4.6 of the Kogi State University conditions and schemes of service for senior staff dated November 2008. They want an order setting aside the purported appointment termination and for payment of all salary arrears and allowances of the lecturers. The claimants are also seeking an order of perpetual injunction, restraining the university and its agents from ejecting them from their respective offices and residents.