President Muhammadu Buhari and governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC) are excited about the choice of Senator Kashim Shettima as Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s running mate. Also happy with the decision are senior figures in the party such as Senate President Ahamad Lawan, House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila and Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege. Asiwaju Tinubu on Sunday, after meeting with President Buhari in Daura, announced the choice of Shettima. The Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF) hailed Shettima’s choice, saying he would complement Tinubu’s good qualities. The governors, who spoke after their Sallah homage to the President in Daura, expressed confidence in the Tinubu/Shettima ticket. They said the ticket would guarantee victory for the ruling party. The president, according to sources, was pleased with Shettima choice. He was said to have applauded Tinubu for the decision. Sources added that as soon as Tinubu broke the news, the President said he was happy about it because Shettima performed well as governor. He also said he was happy that Shettima’s successor, Prof. Babagana Zulum, is doing well, adding that he was thrilled by the synergy between the predecessor and successor. Buhari, the source said, told Tinubu that he was confident that Shettima would not only add value to the ticket, but that both will work well as president and vice president. The source further said the President described Zulum and Shettima as good ambassadors of the APC. PGF Chairman and Governor of Kebbi State Abubakar Bagudu told reporters that the forum will work for the victory of the party at the polls. He said: “We were pleasantly surprised when Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu announced in Daura on Sunday that Senator Kashim Ibrahim Shettima was the vice presidential candidate.” “We were happy that it is no less a person than Senator Shettima, who was announced vice presidential candidate. No doubt, Senator Shettima would compliment the good qualities of Asiwaju Tinubu. “We are very happy at the choice. The two will compliment one another and will surely consolidate on the achievements of the President in the past seven years.” Imo State Governor Hope Uzodinma described Shettima’s choice as a collective decision by the governors, assuring that they will triumph at the poll. He said: “The choice of Senator Shettima as the vice presidential candidate is a collective decision. We shall work hard to ensure victory in all our states.” Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong said while the choice of vice presidential candidate was the prerogative of the presidential candidate, the governors were pleased with Shettima’s choice. He said: “A presidential candidate has the prerogative of picking his vice. But, ours is to ensure the party’s victory in the presidential election.” At the meeting were nine governors: Aminu Masari (Katsina); Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano); Abubakar Bagudu (Kebbi); Abubakar Bello(Niger); Abdullahi Sule (Nasarawa);  Hope Uzodinma (Imo);  Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti); Simon Lalong (Plateau) and Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna). Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu urged the Southwest to support the ticket in national interest. The governor, who was guest at the yearly ‘Ojude Oba’ Festival in Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State, described Tinubu as a formidable and experienced politician. He said: “Let me use this opportunity to make this rallying call on all true sons and daughters of the Yoruba race, and pronounce that in the unifying  spirit of the Ojude Oba celebration, it is my firm hope and belief that the Yoruba race will unite as one behind the momentous candidature of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, a proud son of the race and one of the most formidable and experienced politicians to have ever emerged from Africa.”   2023: North West APC backs Tinubu-Shettima’s ticket     Pan African Farmers Organisation appoints Nigerian CEO     Banditry: Extend security forces’ retirement age,…   Senate President Lawan and the APC Northeast Caucus commended Tinubu over the selection. Lawan, who is also the Chairman, APC Northeast Caucus, in a statement in Abuja, said Tinubu and APC made the right choice. He described Shettima as a loyal and committed party member who has “what it takes to be an excellent running mate to the flag bearer. He said: “Asiwaju Tinubu and our party have made an excellent choice in Senator Shettima. “The former two-term governor of Borno State entered public service with impeccable credentials, which he has burnished by demonstrating great competence, integrity and courage in all the positions that he has held. “His background in academics and the private sector prepared him for the achievements that he has recorded in politics as Governor and since his election to the Senate in 2019. “A loyal and committed member of our party, Senator Shettima has what it takes to be an excellent running mate to our flag bearer, and insha Allah, the Vice President of Federal Republic of Nigeria from next year. “We of the Northeast Caucus of the APC attest that Senator Kashim Ibrahim Shettima is the right man for the job and that he will be an able and loyal lieutenant to our incoming President, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Gbajabiamila described the choice of Shettima as a wise decision. He said the running mate has what it takes to turn the economy around. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the Speaker said Shettima has over the years proved his mettle as a shrewd and progressive politician whose eight years as governor was a defining moment for the state. He said: “Asiwaju is widely known as the biggest talent hunter in the country who has over the years assembled an army of performers in governance, irrespective of their ethnicity or religious leaning. This unique feature also can be found in Sen. Shettima, following his track record of excellence in both the private and public sectors”. Gbajabiamila said as a banker, Shettima has the right character and intellectual capacity to turn things around, adding that his inclusion in the ticket will be a masterstroke in the management of the economy. He recalled his first encounter with Shettima, saying: “My first encounter with Gov Shettima, who I had admired from afar, was many years ago when we travelled together with Asiwaju to the UK to address the issue of terrorism with the British and Nigerians in the Diaspora. “I was amazed by Shettima’s depth, ability and capacity to engage Christiana Amanpour, a journalist of international repute. He earned my respect, and I must say that of his interviewer even more ever since then.” Senator Omo-Agege, in a congratulatory message, described Shettima as detribalised and visionary. He recalled how the former governor and lawmaker representing Borno Central District in the National Assembly played a key role in his own emergence as Deputy Senate President in 2019. “He was and continues to be a major player, not only in the National Assembly, but in our nation at large. “He is a large-hearted and forward-looking leader, inclusive in perspective and shorn of all bigotry. “Our presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, couldn’t have made a better choice. Omo-Agege added: “It is no surprise that the Borno State Chapter of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), has immediately risen in support of Shettima’s selection.” He noted that Shettima is accommodating to other faiths and ethnic groups. Omo-Agege said: “As governor of a dominantly Kanuri state, he had among his closest aides, an Igbo Christian from Anambra State, an Urhobo Christian from Delta Central Senatorial District, a Christian from Edo State, a Yoruba Christian from the Southwest, a Fulani man from Gombe and a Hausa man from Zamfara.” He said the vice presidential candidate is a forthright, vocal and outspoken politician who speaks truth to power. Omo-Agege added: “Senator Shettima is a dogged professional, a rare breed banker, an agricultural economist and politician who is an inspiration to a new generation of leaders. “His rich profile in Executive and Legislative business, public and corporate governance will always be useful in steering the ship of state”.