Banks have started monitoring accounts of loan defaulters in order to recover N1.4 trillion owed them, The Nation learnt at the weekend. The banks are relying on the Global Standing Instructions (GSI) clause which authorises them to debit accounts of chronic defaulters. Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) data shows that 5.31 per cent of the N26.1 trillion credits to the economy, representing N1.4 trillion, is Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) being monitored for the GSI sanctions. A Regional Director in a mid-level bank said banks were reviewing credits in their balance sheets to ascertain delinquent loans and enforce the GSI policy. “The banks are already preparing a list of short and long-term loans which expired in June ending. The debit on the defaulting accounts that signed the GSI clause will start this week in many of the banks,” he said. According to him, the GSI implementation gained momentum among banks after the CBN’s follow-up circular in January which stipulates that the frequency of recovery attempts via the platform would be continuous and unrestricted. The banker said the GSI automated loan recovery feature applicable to all loans in the industry is now perpetually in place throughout the life of the loan and/or until the loan is fully repaid. CBN Deputy Governor Kingsley Obiora said the total flow of credit to the economy increased to N26.10 trillion in April 2022 from N21.45 trillion in April 2021, representing an increase of 21.66 per cent. He explained that some sectors with the increased credit included manufacturing, consumer credit, general commerce, information and communication, and agriculture. Obiora added that NPLs ratio stood at 5.31 per cent at the end of April 2022, slightly above the prudential threshold of five per cent.   10 dead, seven injured in Yobe crash     Acting Accountant-General replaced     I never asked Christians to buy guns, says Adeboye   “It was, however, an improvement from 5.89 per cent at the end of April 2021, reflecting recoveries, restructuring of facilities and sound management practices by Other Depository Corporations (ODCs),” he said in notes to CBN’s  Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) members. In terms of interest on lending, 70.93 per cent of loan recipients in April 2022, accessed those loans at 15 per cent or below, compared with 61.29 per cent in March 2022. This shows more banks customers were able to access loans at lower interest rates over the two periods. In support of the GSI policy, CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele said borrowers must pay back. “The CBN will not allow people to borrow money and refuse to pay again. That era has gone. If you take money, you will pay back the loan. If you borrow money and refuse to pay, we will take your money wherever you are keeping it,” he said. The CBN boss explained that the initiative was conceived to address the recurring instances of willful loan default in the industry to identify and watch-list recalcitrant loan defaulters; enhance recovery from eligible and funded accounts in the industry, and improve credit repayment culture. Emefiele added that the operationalisation of the exercise required borrowers to sign a GSI mandate in hard copy or digital form, after which all qualifying accounts are linked to the borrower’s  Bank Verification Number (BVN). “The GSI mandate form authorises the recovery of an amount specified by the bank from any/all accounts maintained by the borrower across all financial institutions. The GSI empowers banks and other financial institutions to debit accounts of chronic loan defaulters in any bank within the country to ease NPLs growth in the country,” he said.     FBN Holdings Plc, United Bank for Africa Plc and Zenith Bank Plc expanded their loan books by the equivalent of about $1 billion in 2021 as the CBN policy on 65 per cent Loan to Deposit Ratio (LDR) policy implementation gained more support of the lenders. Banks that failed to meet 65 per cent LDR are sanctioned with heavy penalties, S&P Global Market Intelligence calculations showed. Analysts said many banks expanded their loan base following the CBN’s directive that they lend at least 65 per cent of their deposits to customers in a new LDR plan or be sanctioned through restrictions on their deposits.