SIR: As much as we cannot fold our hands and lose our nation to the hawks that have mismanaged our collective patrimony, we should be careful not to lose ourselves this election season. There is life after the polls and we should be mindful not to create enemies. We should not look at those not supporting our candidates as unpatriotic, primitive or wanting to maintain the old order. If our preferred candidate doesn’t win, we should not assume the collective choice of the majority was a mistake, attempt to delegitimize the winner or that “suffer neva tire us”. Let us stop all this toxicity. Truth is that politics like love and religion is illogical. How would you explain admired democracies like France where a centrist president was voted and in a space of a fortnight, yet the same electorate voted in extreme right and left legislators handicapping the same president they voted for? Or is it in America where the same pro-life divide is overruling half a century abortion rights yet upholding rights to own guns that keep killing hundreds. Or is it in the UK where the ruling party is losing public confidence and suffering by-elections that could mean bye to their parliamentary majority, yet that same party is voting to keep its leadership whose misbehaviour is the cause of everything. Life’s choices are not black and white. They are not even grey; they are often all black options, and a choice must be made. Those that want power to shift may be put off by a same religion ticket. Some like a political party but are uncomfortable with the standard bearer. Those that want an unorthodox politician may be asterisked by a weak political base and wonder how he might lead a minority government. Some in fact want to waste their vote. What takes us to the polls are as diverse as punishing a failed party, rewarding a politician’s previous performance or simply because your family votes a certain way. That is why we should not see anybody’s choice as awkward and shouldn’t be blackmailed.   On INEC’s readiness for the 2023 elections     2023: How about a Tinubu/Ngilari match?     Between Atiku, Wike and the PDP   Let’s not kill ourselves over any politician. Almost all of them have crisscrossed all the parties and those that remain faithful to theirs have welcomed perfidious politicians from outside. So, looking for ideology as a basis to vote is not even as straight forward. The only ideology you should be looking for is if your life is better off. Although our leaders have failed us, they never failed themselves. They have in a bipartisan manner, rallied around the former deputy senate president, Ike Ekweremadu, in his travails but not a single word of support for the said donor while the ailing daughter is mentioned only in passing. That is how they roll, without us. One man, no matter how good intentioned cannot change Nigeria alone and no man, no matter how ill-willed will be allowed to destroy Nigeria alone. We will all work together, through the instrumentalities of the constitution and democracy to ensure Nigeria works no matter who dwells in Aso Rock. Pending May 29 next year, the current occupant still has a contract with us and we must ensure he fulfils it while we don’t become the loser in some spoilt children’s prejudiced bouts. Festac, Lagos.