Investors in Nigerian equities closed the first half with a capital gain of N4.751 trillion. It is the best half-year performance in five years. The benchmark indices at the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) indicated double-digit average return of 21.31 per cent for the first half ended June 30. With the average benchmark return of 21.31 per cent, an average investor in the equities market gained more than one-fifth of his portfolio. The double-digit average return also makes equities relatively better inflation-hedging instruments, with positive nominal return. Inflation rate is currently at 17.71 per cent. The benchmark interest rate stands at 13 per cent. The All Share Index (ASI) – the common value-based index that tracks all share prices at the NGX, closed yesterday at 51,817.59 points as against its opening index of 42,716.44 points, an increase of 21.31 per cent. Aggregate market capitalisation of all quoted equities meanwhile rose by 25.29 per cent or N5.638 trillion from opening value of N22.297 trillion to close at N27.935 trillion. The difference between the ASI return and increase in aggregate market capitalisation was due to additional listing of shares during the period. The ASI is generally regarded as the sovereign equities index for Nigeria, the barometer for gauging the Nigerian stock market. Market analysts attributed the market performance to steady and stable positive results of quoted companies in 2021 and first quarter 2022. Most quoted companies had declared considerable dividends with dividend yields touching double-digit in many instances, in contrast to depressed yields in fixed income market. Analysts at Cordros Securities Limited noted that the equities market kicked off the year on an impressive note and was able to sustain the rally till the end of the half of the year. “While emerging and frontier markets have been rattled by the impact of policy normalisation and inflationary pressures occasioned by the Russia-Ukraine conflict, the performance of the Nigerian financial market has been relatively strong. At the same time, the volatility in the fixed income market has also been uncharacteristically muted,” Cordros stated.   Prioritising people     Was it a warning shot?     Dissociative identity disorder   The analysts said the equities market resilience was also due to foreign exchange liquidity which led to limited inflows from investors and resulted in the market being dominated by domestic investors. Foreign investors’ inability to repatriate funds also led to the re-investment of dividends in the market. According to them, the factors that had led to resilient market performance so far will sustain the market in the second half of the year. They projected that the market performance would be far more resilient than in other pre-election years when market performance was pressured as investors’ consternation rose. The analysts said: “This prognosis is based on the market being dominated by domestic investors and expectation that corporate earnings will remain resilient despite external concerns around global growth and internal concerns around spiralling inflation and the attendant impact on costs. “Considering all the issues, our baseline expectation is that the market will remain resilient in second half 2022, and the return will settle at 27.0 per cent by 2022 full year.” Managing Director, ARM Securities Limited, Mr. Rotimi Olubi, said improved participation by local investors in the market has been major boost as foreign investors maintain the sidelines. “Strong earnings from some stocks in the consumer goods and industrial goods as well as some banks also buoyed investor sentiment,” Olubi said. Vice President, Highcap Securities Limited, David Adonri said the first half 2022 performance was heartwarming as Nigeria outperformed all other African markets. According to him, the market had rallied due to the impressive 2021 full year and first quarter 2022 results. He attributed the growth to the rising crude oil price also enhanced performance of equities. He added that the market slowed down in June due to unfavorable domestic factors which the rising crude oil market could not offset. “These were the rising inflation rate, hike in interest rate and excruciating energy crisis. As the political risk associated with the 2023 general election heightens and possibility of further hike in interest rate looms, economic fundamentals may not be strong enough to engender further market growth in second  half 2022,” Adonri said.