After prevarication over ransom motives, terrorists who bombed the Kaduna-bound rail service from Abuja on March 28 have demanded 4.3billion naira to free hostages remaining in their captivity. This could be said to represent another phase of their terrorism – this time psychological and economic. Such demand in exchange for the lives of the 43 victims still in the terrorists’ custody subjects the families of the victims to fresh round of emotional distress and trauma. Sadly, government has so far been unable to free the victims from captivity and left the families in agitation for continuing safety of their loved ones. In the face of seeming helplessness by the state, the terrorists have mustered the courage to demand a huge ransom from relations of the hostages who have been in captivity for more than 100 days now. Should the families raise such humongous ransom to free their loved ones, the terrorists would likely be emboldened to strike some other time for another round of extortion. Besides, with such enormous sum in their kitty, the terrorists would obviously be economically empowered to buy lethal weapons to further tyrannise the country. As it were, some 800 million naira was reported paid to them before the recent batch of hostages released. Under the circumstance, the nation is feeding a monster, and that monster’s appetite cannot be satiated if it is not altogether stopped. So, the Federal Government that controls the national security apparatus would need to wake up to the responsibility of breaking the vicious cycle of insecurity that feeds further insecurity. It was audacious that terrorists, while holding many Nigerians hostage, recently stormed the prison facility in Kuje with the apparent aim of freeing their own colleagues in government custody. And they got their way.   Endless varsity crisis     Bittersweet of population     SMEs cry   To make matters more galling, there were reports that security agencies had advance intelligence about likely attack on the correctional centre. Besides, there were suspicions of grave system breaches, such that Senate President Ahmad Lawan during his visit to the correctional centre alleged the likelihood of insider collusion in the attack. If such allegations are true, it means national security is severely compromised and the state in grave danger. We urge the federal authorities to wake up to their constitutional responsibilities. In case they need to be reminded, Section 14(2)(b) of the 1999 constitution (as amended) clearly states: “The security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government.” The Federal Government has so far failed the victims of the Kaduna train attack and their families, just as it has failed hundreds of victims of gruesome murders and kidnappings across the country. Government should hold security agencies to the task of flushing out criminals terrorising the citizenry. It has the capacity to do so, if there is matching will power on its part. And if this isn’t done, the claim to state sovereignty becomes specious because we are faced with persisting situation whereby terrorists capture citizens and batter their lives for ransoms that they apparently use in further arming up for wilder exploits – all under the jurisdiction of the state. As Commander-in-Chief, President Muhammadu Buhari should see the trend as personal affront to his authority that should not be tolerated and must be tackled down by all means. Beyond the conventional mode of security operations, modern technology should be maximally deployed to rout the terrorists who have given this country a black eye. History would not be kind to Mr. President if the country remains overwhelmed by terrorists as he concludes his tenure.