Holidaying Everton Nigerian star Alex Iwobi has been talking about his late renaissance that helped Everton beat relegation from the Premier League last season. Iwobi was a fixture in Frank Lampard’s team in the closing months of the 2021/22 campaign, with his relentless energy a vital component of the Blues’ high-octane performances. The Nigerian completed the full match in each of Everton’s final 12 top-flight games of the season, a sequence that kicked off with Iwobi scoring a dramatic 99th-minute winner against Newcastle United at Goodison Park. The Nigerian believes his towards-the-end season impressive run is born out of a desire to go all out and enjoy himself on the pitch. Iwobi, who is currently on holiday, shortly, after, returning to the London cage with grassroots friends to express himself, says    that spirit has helped him at both club and country games. He feels he can “run non-stop” during matches – and says his impressive stamina gives him the belief he can make key contributions until the final whistle. Manager Lampard described Iwobi as “someone I can rely on”, paying tribute to the 26-year-old’s professionalism, work ethic, and endurance. “In the games, I feel I can run non-stop,” says Iwobi. “As soon as the final whistle goes, I am shattered and think, ‘How have I done that?’ “I have been dropping on the pitch, falling on my knees or to the floor. It comes on instantly, the feeling of, ‘I am done.’ “The manager has faith in my ability to run for 90 minutes, to give the same level of effort for the whole game. “It gives me a massive confidence boost and I appreciate it.” THE TALK WITH LAMPARD In Lampard, Iwobi believes he has a manager who fully appreciates his wide range of qualities. And he reveals the Everton boss’s message following a game Iwobi regards as the turning point in his season. “When you get the chance in the team, you have you take it, and I feel the Leeds match [a dominant 3-0 on 12 February] was big for me,” Iwobi added. “Evertonians demand you run around and give a lot of effort. “The manager told me that was the first thing I needed to do. I did it – and showed what I could do on the ball. “Since then I’ve shown faith in you and you’ve repaid me, keep it going.” Iwobi says he would continue displaying the relentless work ethic that underpinned his excellent displays in Everton’s Premier League run-in. Iwobi’s versatility proved invaluable for Lampard, with the former Arsenal man impressing when deployed as a central midfielder, wide forward, and wing-back. Iwobi was the only Everton player to start the Toffees’ final 12 matches of the season, with his conditioning and application highlighted by the fact he played every minute of those games. In another interview with evertonfc.com, Iwobi says: “Evertonians appreciate hard work and the physical side. If I have that energy, hopefully, it influences my teammates. “It is important that I understand the culture of the city, the passion for football, and for Everton.   Aribo, Bassey, Iwobi return to London cage     Serena @ 40: I’m still in the game     Danny Drinkwater: My Chelsea nightmare   “I love playing and like to express myself through football, so when I get the opportunity, I just try my best. “The manager spoke to me after the Leicester home game [a 1-1 draw on 20 April] about having a bit more tactical awareness. “He says, ‘It is nice to have the energy to run and chase and get back, but maybe, sometimes, preserve it, chill out, so you’re not burned out. “Other than that, he says to maintain the work ethic because it really helps the crowd engage with the team. “The manager knows I have the ability to press and quickly get back into shape.” DESERVING BREAK Iwobi is now enjoying a well-earned break after following up his Everton campaign by playing four internationals in the space of 16 days for Nigeria, completing 90 minutes in each contest. Though he did not let out his holiday spot on the Twitter posts, he’s somewhere with lots of sun and beach as he dresses down, letting down his long dread to enjoy the breeze. Seemingly happy with himself he looks relaxed and in one post, he talked about making baked beans when life gives you lemons. In another post, he goes on a hip-hop spree and expresses consonance and eye-catching rhymes. “Droppin’ Leaves, Drippin, Honeys On Butterflies, Stormzy must be Proud.’ ‘Express and Be Free, Live Life” In another tweet Iwobi echos Burna Boy’s lyrics, “Tell Me What You See When You Look At Me.” With the start of the EPL 2022/23 season four weeks away, Iwobi says he is intent on sustaining his end-of-season momentum. “My first couple of years here weren’t the greatest but this [the final weeks of the season] was my best period at Everton,” he added. “I want to use it as a platform to kick on and make more positive memories with this club. “I am youngish and have a lot of time ahead. “I want to win something with Everton – and do my best for the Club.” ‘I’m no longer that young prospect, that young talent,’ he says. ‘I have to show why there was so much hype about me. The only way you can do that is in games. I feel I’m at that time in my career when I need to start doing that. I need to up my stats a bit more, and improve a bit more. The Nigerian signed for Everton in 2019 for £35m but has endured a stop-start season. All that has changed with his commanding presence last season. “The best part of a poor bunch,” says a fan described him after Everton’s home draw to Leicester. It was an apt description of his status in a team struggling to find a semblance of consistency or quality. He has also become a rallying point for the team. He insists his side are capable of competing with anyone if they fight. ‘If we fight, we are capable of competing with anyone. It starts in training. Be the best you can, then transfer it into matches.’ Iwobi grew up in Plaistow, which is the West Ham territory. He had the chance to join them as a kid before going to Arsenal. ‘I’ve heard negativity all my life. Every time I hear it, it gives me that desire to prove people wrong. I’m sure that’s what many people on the team feel like. “I won’t lie, relegation has been mentioned once or twice, but not a lot. We’re trying to look forward, not behind. We don’t want to play with fear but impose ourselves. We are in the Premier League and that is all we talk about now,” adds Iwobi.