In November, when Ademola Adeleke is sworn in as the governor, having bested Gboyega Oyetola with a margin in excess of 28,000 votes, Osun State will become a regency. The state’s angry and adventurous voters want it that way. They don’t give a damn how qualified, intelligent, even-tempered and deep Mr Oyetola is. All they care about is that for reasons no educated person can fathom, they prefer Senator Adeleke, aka the dancing senator. Mr. Oyetola is not a typical politician: frivolous, falsely engaging, deceptively friendly, and pedestrian. He is an administrator, a workaholic and a meticulous manager of public finance. Such studiousness and fastidiousness infuriate the people of Osun. When Sen. Adeleke mounts the throne, he will be an intellectual and administrative minor, requiring the services of a regent. One of his brothers or sisters will fill the gap. After all, the Adelekes are an illustrious family who can produce regents at the drop of a hat. Mr. Oyetola has been scalped. If he reflects over his loss, he will find a thing or two he could have done differently to make that fate evitable. He didn’t need to lose. But he lost. It is partly because Osun State is a specialist in cutting its nose to spite its face. Former governor Bisi Akande did well, extremely well, by the state when he governed between 1999 and 2003. But he was also atypical, ramrod straight ethically, couldn’t give a damn what you thought, and would as soon follow the rules of governance as cock a snook at your wishes and peccadilloes. Unused to such suffocating order and financial finicalness, Osun rolled out their votes and threw their administrator under the bus. Thereupon the state proceeded to labour under the bureaucratic delusions of ex-governor Olagunsoye Oyinlola, whom some have described as a do-nothing governor, perambulated through eight years of the romantic socialist wannabe, Rauf Aregbesola, and were dragged screaming and kicking under the Byzantine leadership of Mr. Oyetola. Four years of the latter was all they could take. Incensed and humiliated, Mr. Oyetola now wishes to litigate his loss; but it won’t profit him anything. The election was free and fair. Of course Sen. Adeleke did not win the poll; Mr. Oyetola lost it, and he lost it by years of disengaging the snouts of the state’s cognoscenti from Osun’s feeding trough and treasury, and also by many more years of not ‘financially empowering’ those desperate for inducements, some of whom are his aides and cabinet members. He was too straitlaced to rule a state with a murderous predilection for destroying their saints, a people so regicidal that they pride themselves in electoral bloodletting. Osun is of course not alone in cutting noses to spite faces. Edo State, drunk on catchphrases like ‘Edo no be Lagos’ also disgracefully mined twisted public sentiments to install Governor Godwin Obaseki for a second term, though his first term was mediocre in the extreme. But fancying themselves as warriors against what Nigerians call ‘godfatherism’, a reference to how they disemboweled both former governor Adams Oshiomhole and the APC national leader, Bola Ahmed TInubu, who had paid avuncular attention to happenings in the state, Edo rolled out their votes and hammered out victory for the incumbent with the help of scheming and unethical APC governors and leaders. Mr. Obaseki’s second term has proved more disastrous than his first term. Nothing will redeem his second term; just like nothing will redeem Sen Adeleke’s governorship, should Osun be tired of drinking electoral blood as to give their incoming governor a second term. Many other factors have been adduced for the defeat of the APC in the Osun poll. They are wishy-washy. One of the factors is the putative spoiler role played by the rebellious Mr. Aregbesola, former governor and ineffective Interior minister under whom the prisons have done nothing significant but changed name. He had fallen out with Mr. Oyetola shortly after the latter became governor, and soon that estrangement rose in scope to envelope Asiwaju Tinubu, his mentor, whom he scalded for disallowing him from being Osun’s godfather. Mr. Aregbesola accused Asiwaju Tinbu of orchestrating the collapse of the state’s governorship rotation formula, a collapse he claimed unduly benefited Mr. Oyetola. Then he accused the outgoing governor of muscling out his faction within the ruling party. He was, however, silent on the fact that his tenure was disastrous, in fact catastrophic, as he upended and uprooted cultures, traditions, icons, and enthroned half-baked socialist ideas on a state that is decidedly capitalist or bucolic and conservative. Mr. Oyetola spent precious years and debt repayment trying to sanitise the financial, administrative and political mess created by his predecessor. Whether Mr. Aregbesola and his APC faction like it or not, they will be strangers to the commonwealth the rival Adeleke family will be creating in Osun State. His best bet was to stomach the indignities he claimed Mr. Oyetola heaped on him, because at least, the APC would remain in office. Sooner or later, time would heal the divisions in the party, and perhaps reintegrate him and his men. Now, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will be in office for the next four years. They will not recognise him in the way he yearns, for they will recall how he bastardised the state, scattered the holiday regime of Osun, and ingeniously introduced sectarianism into one of the most secular of states in the Southwest. In fact, the ultimate repudiation of his administration is the victory of a Christian-Christian ticket at a time when the twisted logic of many critics who abjure Muslim-Muslim ticket nationally is running rampant. Mr. Aregbesola added nothing to the victory of the PDP in the state, despite the duplicitous claims by some of his aides that he did. Indeed, Mr. Oyetola did not lose because of the divisions within the APC. Had he outbid PDP pursers before and during voting, and allowed his men to help themselves a little to state funds, and had he also scrupulously serviced the state’s leading lights, he would have won. The margin of loss was not insurmountable. Should the APC win the presidency, Osun will find itself outside looking in. But few in Osun seemed to care when they flung the genial Mr. Oyetola out of the window. Instead, the PDP in Osun, nationally and in Lagos, are beginning to tantalise themselves with the prospect of causing a major upset in the coming polls. Well, firstly, Osun went into the election with a Christian-Christian ticket, seemingly disproving the belief that a Muslim-Muslim ticket would not fly. Secondly, it is true that the Igbo vote in Osun, rather than be cast for the Labour Party whose rave, Peter Obi, had tried to galvanise voters with his newfound social media popularity, and probably voted for Mr. Adeleke whose mother was Igbo. Could Lagos replicate that political behavior in the next poll by getting the Igbo to vote PDP or Labour, especially in the legislative poll? It remains to be seen just how iconoclastic Nigerian voters have become on account of the improvement in making votes count. But don’t count on Osun keeping the Adelekes beyond four years. Osun voters are too fickle to stay the course, especially when that course becomes arduous and trying. They have got their wish today, and are reveling in the power and freedom their ability to enthrone and dethrone ‘kings’ at will has given them. The economy is in a tailspin already, and they need the steadying and futuristic financial engineering which Mr. Oyetola offered them. But not been pampered by the rustic trappings which that engineering needed, the outgoing governor’s methods offended them. States are about to enter a very trying time in their finances, and Osun now has the distinguished honour, regent or no regent, of having a dancer and bohemian at the helm. Steering the laden and creaky Osun ship between Scylla and Charybdis without the financial rudder and captainship Mr Oyetola came into office with will tax the untried intellect and untested resolve of Sen Adeleke and his regents beyond measure. Freedom, like nobility, imposes obligations; if Osun has not learnt the rudiments of fasting, now is the time to take crash lessons. But from the way they cavalierly discharged their voting responsibility last week, there is no proof that they are capable of the reflection required to save themselves and generations unborn from hardship and embarrassment.     Shettima, APC ticket: Tinubu bites the bullet     APC, PDP battle demons     2023: what interest groups overlook    DESPITE poor ratings, mostly fuelled by insecurity and inexpert management of the Nigerian economy and inexplicable appointments of key aides, President Muhammadu Buhari has accomplished many things. His achievements, some of them attributable to the initiative and drive of a few of his appointees, may ultimately be more impactful than his predecessor’s. In the closing months of his presidency, both he and his admiring public will recount such key accomplishments and probably celebrate him in a way that will cause him to shed a tear or two. If that is to be the culmination of his presidency, he will have to ensure that the economy spiraling out of control does not finally go into a tailspin, and insecurity does not lead to an explosion. He will have to dexterously manage state affairs, be advised by the best hands he can find from anywhere, Christian, Muslim, traditional religion, despite his personal revulsion, and regardless of political leaning. However, of the many things he has left undone, one stands out: state police. If he does not do it, his successor will do it. Having spent over seven years not managing the national economy brilliantly, nor structuring it in a way that would make it self-sustaining, it is not expected that he would suddenly find the master key to redeeming it and getting results. And having spent an awful long time cobbling together a skewed and insular kitchen cabinet, together with security agencies that remained blatantly conservative, if not reactionary and unresponsive to the changing dynamics of the moment, there is not much he can do now to restructure and reorient them along very Nigerian lines. And having also sadly given the impression for years that the boyish religious fantasies he embraced had changed little and continue to inform his worldview and relationships, not to say his presidency, it is not clear that in the remaining months of his presidency he can suddenly become open-minded, liberal and inclusionary. He was also best placed to lead the restructuring of the country to eliminate the dissonance of today and the day after tomorrow, but he was too fearful to attempt that leap. But there is one thing he can do to shore up his sagging and battered image, one thing that can help him begin addressing the dire problem of insecurity holding the country hostage and stultifying its potentials. It will not be easy, and he will probably not complete the structural transformation needed to birth it should he embark on it because it will include constitutional changes involving the states. However, he can start the change, drive it, get it to a point where it cannot be reversed, and since a consensus has already been formed around it, even claim some credit for thinking or originating it. Had President Buhari begun implementing the idea of state police for which virtually all the states were in agreement for years, he would probably have achieved it by now, and the country’s insecurity crisis would have been considerably ameliorated. It is true he feared abuse by state governors, perhaps worse than the federal government is abusing the police already, but despite the tardiness of the national legislature, constitutional safeguards could have been built into the radical reforms. State police is an idea whose time came more than four years ago, before security challenges morphed into the monster it has become. His party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), through a 2017 committee on restructuring panel headed by Kaduna State governor Nasir el-Rufai, recommended it and suggested operational guidelines and template. The panel’s recommendations were simply discarded. Since then, insecurity has clearly become cancerous, despite the solution staring everybody in the face. Whether the president likes it or not, the situation will not get better. The authorities can kill as many bandits and terrorists as they can, and smoke out Boko Haram/ISWAP insurgents as their resources can give them the leeway, but federal effort can hardly check the criminals, not to say completely stanch the flow of blood. The economy is getting worse; it will not get better in the months ahead. This and other factors that enable and energise crime will make the crisis intractable and unresponsive to the feeble ameliorations the government in Abuja has seemed to master. In the past few months, the president has appeared to strangely come alive. It cannot be because of his health. Yes, he has brought some measure of control to that department, but his health is obviously not robust enough to explain the mental and physical reinvigoration he is thankfully manifesting before everyone. His cabinet has remained desultory and knee-jerk in its approach to complex issues, and is composed of the same people as in the beginning. It is a mixed bag of great and mediocre individuals who have not given the public reason to exult that the country is in safe hands. See, for instance, how he reacted decisively to the ministerial coterie angling for the presidency, even though he was unable to pull it through to the defiant end. And consider how after some pussyfooting and hesitations he finally managed his party’s chairmanship election and presidential primary. His approach could be neater and more statesmanlike, but considering where he was coming from, it is a miracle that he got as far as he did. Much more, he has begun to speak fairly eloquently about electoral fidelity, despite hemming and hawing about democracy and the rule of law. And when he quickly spoke his mind about the outcome of the governorship election in Osun without reference to his party, he seems to have acquired a new and independent spirit. For a man thought to have a split personality, President Buhari appears to be turning a more definitive new leaf. Now, let him bring this new spirit, this new essence, this somewhat robust appreciation of what governance and the presidency should be, into play in his last months in office. He will not, and obviously cannot, complete state police restructuring, but he can start it and get it over the initial mountain hurdle. This column had been wary of his patriotism, having argued all along that he seemed more narrowly concerned about augmenting the circumstances of the core North and Islam than anything else; but given present concerns and the dark alley Nigeria must navigate in the months ahead before 2023, the president should be encouraged to do as much as is constitutionally possible before he leaves office. Last week, this column accused him of prematurely throwing in the towel when he described in evocative detail how his retirement would be. But if he can manage a few changes, let him disprove that conclusion. More, let him assemble men and women, not necessarily in or from his cabinet, who can help him finish strong. He is definitely going to borrow his way to the end of his second term in 2023, just as he will likely find the funds to deliver a rapprochement with striking university teachers and justify his newfound zeal to bring the ASUU strike to a closure. In like manner, wherever he is getting the inspiration, let him drink from that primeval spring once again and pleasantly surprise the nation on the subject of state police. Above all, let him not go without addressing that subject and impacting it in a way that will be unforgettable. Can he manage that last gasp?