In the last NATO meeting of June 29-30 held in Madrid, Spain attended by all members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization with South Korea, Japan, Australia and New Zealand as observers, important decisions that seem to change the strategic posture of the alliance were taken. First of all, Turkey seemed to have been pressured to lift its blocking of Sweden and Finland from joining the alliance on the spurious grounds that the two countries harboured members of the militant Turkish Kurdistan Party. Turkey before the Madrid conference was being accused of being a sleeper cell for Russia in the alliance. In the Madrid Summit Declaration issued on June 29, the following points were highlighted. The fact of a land war in Europe and its security implications were pointed out as calling into question the security of member states of the alliance. Since the coming of the nuclear age in 1945, the strategy of deterrence in the sense that a war between the two nuclear armed camps of NATO and the Warsaw Pact countries was inconceivable was the prevailing doctrine. Even with the collapse of the USSR in 1994 and the recent re-emergence of nationalist Russia, the doctrine of deterrence remained until now when it is now considered not strong enough in a situation where Russia is prepared to wage a land war against her neighbour. The new NATO doctrine is encapsulated in the Madrid Declaration issued after the recent summit in Madrid, Spain. The statement reiterated the defensive nature of the alliance and that the transatlantic membership of the alliance with Canada and the United States gives the alliance a global reach and indicated that members should take with concern the Russo- Chinese growing threat to global security.  This concern with China must have been at the directive of the United States because countries like Germany and France have strong economic interests and ties with China. The way for Swedish and Finnish accession to the NATO protocols was open and that while the process was on, NATO stands ready to protect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Finland and Sweden and therefore reiterated the alliance’s commitment to the Washington Treaty including Article 5 which says an attack on one NATO country is an attack on all. It declared that the Madrid summit “… marks a milestone in strengthening our alliance and accelerating its adaptation”. The summit committed itself to upholding democratic practices and support for them and the basic principles of the rule of law, individual liberty and human rights and international law which were the principles that undergirded the setting up of the United Nations. It therefore condemned the unprovoked attack by Russia on Ukraine its neighbour and pledged NATO’s support for the poor country just struggling to be free. President Zelensky participated in the summit via zoom.   Growing right wing tendencies in the USA     Ekiti gubernatorial election     Inflation and the global economy   The declaration claimed that NATO faces direct threats from terrorists but also most significantly from Russia. The threat from cyberspace was highlighted so was what it called “hybrid and other asymmetric threats and by malicious use of emerging and disruptive technologies”. The summit in a radical statement of its raison d’etre stated that it faced “… systemic competition from those including  the Peoples Republic of China, who challenge our interests, security and values and seek to undermine the rules based international order. Instability beyond our borders is also contributing to irregular migration and human trafficking”. In view of the stated threats to its interest, the alliance endorsed a new strategic concept. This consists of deterrence and defence through strength, “management and cooperative security”. The concept also includes strengthening of its political and practical support for Ukraine through a package of delivery of “non-lethal defence equipment”.  It committed the alliance to “equip Ukraine’s cyber defences and resilience and support modernising its defence sector in its transition to strengthen long term interoperability. In the longer term, we will assist Ukraine and support efforts on its path of post war reconstruction and reforms”. The document also stated NATO’s commitment to ”its 360 degree approach, across the land, air, maritime, cyber and space domains and against all threats and challenges”. In its new posture NATO by next year will increase troops in its eastern border with Russia from current level of 40,000 to 300,000 with all members spending a minimum of two percent of their national budgets on bringing their military at a level of military preparedness to defend any member that may be threatened by foreign adversaries. Because of its perception of strategic change in Europe following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, NATO has decided on new measures to step up practical support for the republics of Bosnia Herzegovina, Georgia and the Republic of Moldova. NATO also welcomes increased cooperation and coordination with what it called friendly countries such as Australia, Japan, South Korea and New Zealand. Surprisingly the foreign ministers of Jordan and Mauritania were at the summit. Jordan may have some strategic importance as a friendly country in the Middle East but the significance of Mauritania in western strategic consideration is not clear except in France’s military posture in francophone areas of the Sahel. What I find puzzling in NATO’s new posturing is the fact that it seems to see possibility of land warfare in its relations with the Russian federation. Finland’s accession to the NATO protocol would increase NATO’s border with Russia by 1300 kilometres and with this comes the possibility of border conflicts between NATO and the Russian federation which is something to be dreaded because a minor hostility on this long border could plunge the world into a thermonuclear war which in the words of President J.F. Kennedy the “the living will envy the dead”. There are significant Russian irredentist claims in Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania which could in future become casus belli in a world moved by irrational nationalism. The Balkan nations that are now part of NATO have not fully resolved their old hatred which plunged the world into the First World War and a conflict say between Serbia and Bosnia Herzegovina could bring NATO and the Russian Federation into conflict. Instead of NATO expanding eastwards, is there no other way Russia can be brought into the European family of nations where it has historically belonged? Putin probably represents an aberration in spite of his seeing himself as the new Peter the great. Putin indeed  justifiably lays claims of great power status for Russia since the collapse of the Soviet Union and historically Russia has been more than sinned against than sinned against other European countries. The emphasis on building land, air, cyber and space defences and maritime forces against identified enemies in Russia and China will elicit the same reaction from those two countries, leading to a repeat of the Cold War and military competition which the world had thought we had seen the end of with the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1994.