Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) and members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) on Thursday clashed in Osogbo capital of Osun State as they engaged in a shoutout. The Nation gathered the incident. which occurred around 2 pm caused tension around Old Garage area via Rasco after operatives of NDLEA trailed a commercial bus to the Lagos park located at the area. A trader around the area, Idowu, told our correspondent: “Men of NDLEA arrived the park, we saw a driver who just entered the park abandoning his bus and ran inside the bus close to the park. The operative attempted to arrest him but he escaped. They shot to scare him, unfortunately, the bullets injured about five members of NURTW. “The action angered the members of NURTW at the scene and they engaged the operatives in shootout, which lasted for seven minutes. Police later reinforced to the scene before peace was restored. The incident forced many of us to close our shops.”   CSO makes case for seniority in picking new Accountant…     We’re not aware of such plans, says Education Ministry’s…     Drag anyone on Apostle Suleiman’s alleged s3x list – Yul…   Chairman of NURTW unit, Oyewale Kazeem, confirmed his men resisted the NDLEA operatives after they injured four persons while they attempted to arrest a driver they suspect to be carrying drugs.” The Director Media and Advocacy for NDLEA, Femi Babafemi, disclosed four persons were injured while their officers were trying to arrest a driver carrying drugs. “They followed the vehicle to a particular garage to see who the consignment would be delivered to. So, having tracked the vehicle to the garage and confirmed the consignment and arrested the driver of the vehicle, the situation became rowdy and the miscreant in the garage came out with bottles, cutlasses and guns to engage our men. ‘’We reached the Commissioner of Police for reinforcement, which was provided and, in their attempt, to withdraw from the scene there was conflict. I think four of the miscreants were injured and they have been taken to the hospital for treatment,” he said.