When they arrived in Dallas, Texas, in the United States of America in 2015, RRB and his wife had only five dollars on them. RRB was admitted into the U.S. on an F1, otherwise known as student visa. It allowed him to come in with his wife. The duo spent the five dollars to buy an American sim card and became penniless. After some months in Dallas, RRB felt the need to transfer his education to another institution in Maryland and off he went with his wife. Things looked promising over there. A fellow Nigerian promised to accommodate him, give him a job, with which his school fees would be paid and his wife was billed to work with the wife of his host, who was running a day care. They were in an expansive mood when they arrived what they thought was going to be their new home. The romance, however, lasted only a few weeks. They were thrown out by the same man who promised heaven on earth. Before they were made homeless, RRB had started a relationship with a Baptist church around. It was to the leader of this church he went to seek succour. He was allowed to start preaching in the church for a fee and the leader of the church also partly paid for a car for him. This car was to play a major role in rescuing him. He had an accident with the car and the insurance company paid him so well that he bought a good car, with which he started uber. He also paid his school fees and escaped being unable to graduate. This great guy survived dropping out of school and being homeless, thanks to other people’s money in the kitty of the insurance company. This kind of other people’s money is, however, the least of my concerns today. My concern is about people in government and people going into government. Being in government all over the world is akin to spending other people’s money or what is called taxpayers’ money. Your convoy, your retinue of aides, freebies upon freebies, are funded by other people, especially in a place like Nigeria. Many lavish other people’s money on women, Champagne, and all kinds of nonsense, and they are reckless about it. They care less about what the people think. Not a few boast that they have paid upfront to buy their positions and are thus entitled to feed fat on other people’s money. They build country homes that they hardly sleep in, and they fill their garages with automobiles they drive once in a while. They stash money in bank accounts that they never get to spend. They build mansions in highbrow areas that no one sleeps in. Sheer waste! In Nigeria, there is a larger-than-life image around individuals elected or rigged into offices. Sirens announce their arrival and exit from events. Aides have headache on their behalf. Things happen at their say so. A governor once asked that a boy who insulted him should be beaten to a pulp and brought to him. He thereafter gave his father money to rehabilitate him. The beating was carried out by men of our security agencies who are well aware that their action was unconstitutional. But who were they to disobey the governor? Such is the power of a governor.   Buhari: ‘Something to remember me by’     Choosing to act     Double jeopardy? Just as well!   It is, however, a different kettle of fish after a governor has completed his tenure of office. Some of them even go broke and unable to sustain the life in power. The flipside of power is nothing like life in power. When other people’s money dry out, life can be hellish. That perhaps explains why some political office holders have tried to make provisions for their lives after power to be close to their years in power. Governors have passed laws that will see them enjoying other people’s money even after office. In one of such laws, ex-governors of that state are entitled to N100 million annual medical allowance, a brand new official car and utility vehicle once every four years; personal aides paid for by the government will serve them for the rest of their lives; their security will be sorted out by the government; and they will be paid some N5 million annually as payout for a cook, chauffeurs and security guards. They are also entitled to a house either in Abuja or any part of the state at the expense of the government; a furniture allowance of 300 per cent of their annual basic salary must be paid once every four years; an annual maintenance and fuel allowance of 300 per cent of their annual basic salary and severance gratuity of 300 per cent of their annual basic salary must be paid to them. They also deserve a yearly utility allowance of 100 per cent of basic salary. There is also a provision which mandates the government to bear the full cost of the beneficiary and pay a condolence allowance equivalent to the annual basic salary to their next of kins. This is in a state where poverty still walks on all fours. Many of its citizens can still not afford three square meals, and life is certainly not sweet for these people ravaged by extreme poverty. Only a fraction of the state’s population enjoys the chunk of its wealth. What the majority benefit from is nothing but crumbs. This pension law creates an illusion of life in power, a continued access to other people’s money. My final take: At a time like this when many are planning to get into government and scores are screaming to remain in government, it is important to state that there is no need stealing or lavishing other people’s money because, in the end, what we need is seriously less than what we desire. Most of our desires, in the long run, are poisons we should avoid, at all costs.