It is a titanic battle for the clubs at the lower part of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) table with two games to the end of the season and gladiators at the wrong end of the log are talking tough ahead of the weekend games. TUNDE LIADI writes. 2021-22 The Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) season is barely two games to end and with the first two positions already settled and taken up by Rivers United and Plateau United. The race for the third spot is still very much alive while the battle to avoid relegation is even more intense. MFM FC were the first club to be demoted to the lower league after a 2-1 home loss to Niger Tornadoes in Ijebu Ode last weekend. There are three more teams that will follow MFM to the Nigeria National League (NNL) next season but with two games to go, these teams are not known yet. It was a sad end for the Olukoya Boys who were second in the top flight in 2017 behind Plateau United barely a season after they survived the relegation battle on the final day of the season. Besides the top eight who are mathematically safe from the relegation dogfight, anything can still happen regarding the eventualities of the remaining 12 teams with only four points separating ninth-placed Gombe United (49 points) from 17th-placed Katsina United who are on 45 points. Heartland and Dakkada who are 18th and 19th respectively with 44 and 43 points have tough away fixtures to Niger Tornadoes and Enyimba in this order on Sunday. A win for Tornadoes may be enough to guarantee them another stint in the NPFL next season even if they are beaten in the last game of the season by Remo Stars on July 17th. But Heartland cannot afford to lose in Kaduna to the Ikon Allah Boys if they do not want to be on the brink of demotion. Heartland defender, Jimoh Gbadamosi told NationSport that they are going to Kaduna with their sight fixed on picking a positive result and that they are buoyed by their recent impressive home performance and the point they bagged in Aba against Enyimba on June 26th. He said despite what the team have gone through this season, retaining its spot in the elite division would be an ideal way to end the turbulent season. “We did all we could to grind out a positive result against Sunshine Stars. We went with the willingness and the right character to secure the three points,” Gbadamosi said. “We know that it is a dicey one for us but we are going to fight until the very last moment. We have gone through a lot this season but as professionals that we are, we have not allowed the off-the-pitch challenges to distract us. We are fully focused on a good result in Kaduna.” Another team that is at the wrong end of the league table is Kano Pillars. Despite winning the league crown on four occasions, Sai Masu Gida are 16th on the log with 45 points. They are only out of the relegation by the virtue of goal difference. Pillars are away to Nasarawa United in Jos on Sunday. The Solid Miners are only two points from the drop done even though they are in the 11th spot and being their last home game of the season, they are aware they must tight all loose ends and ensure the maximum points are delivered to put them on the cusp of another season in the elite division.   Sports Festival to be expanded soon, says Dare     World Cup stadiums to be alcohol-free     Historic Jabeur becomes first African woman in Grand Slam…	   Kano Pillars legend, Rabiu Ali stressed that they are approaching the final two games of the season with everything they could muster knowing that it would be disappointing for the club to go down. “We have had so many bad results in the league this season and the last-minute loss to Rivers United in Port Harcourt didn’t help us at all. We must go to the game with Nasarawa United with the belief that we can win it,” Ali said. “It will be a very bad experience for Kano Pillars to go on relegation. We must do our best to get the needed results in the final two games,” he added. Another ancient team fighting for the drop is Shooting Stars (3SC) of Ibadan but they got a precious point in Awka against Enugu Rangers to ascend to the 15th spot with 45 points. The Oluyole Warriors amassed more to be above the relegation zone but they have a massive home game against champions-elect Rivers United on Sunday. It is a game they cannot afford to toy with, while their last game of the season is against relegation-haunted Kano Pillars in Kano. 3SC striker Moses Omoduemuke who scored the brace that has almost ended Rangers’ continental ticket hope was happy to secure the crucial point for the Oluyole Warriors but affirmed that they would ensure they get the points at home to Stanley Eguma’s men. “What a point to win at Awka City Stadium in Anambra. We will continue to work hard as a group to keep improving and growing as a team. Happy for the brace. “I am set for the game and it is not with the desire to seek any revenge but to ensure that my team is out of the relegation zone. It was magical getting a point in Awka. We have the belief that we can beat Rivers United on Sunday,” he said. Katsina United with Usman Abdallah at the helms have a home game with Plateau United on Sunday. The Changi Boys are 17th with 45 points but a home win against the Peace Boys will see them swim away from the relegation water if results from other centres go their way. Gombe United with a home fixture with erratic Enugu Rangers will seal a place in the NPFL next season if they manage to fend off the Flying Antelopes at the Pantami Stadium in Gombe this weekend. The Desert Scorpions are ninth on the table with 49 points and with the addition of three points, they will be free from the drop zone irrespective of their final day tie against Rivers United in Port Harcourt on July 17th. Abia Warriors and Lobi Stars are 12th and 14th on the log with 46 points apiece. The Warriors will face dethroned champions, Akwa United this weekend while the Pride of Benue will host Wikki Tourists in Makurdi on Sunday.