The Executive Secretary, Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND), Sonny Echono has said it is imperative to develop an education curriculum which meets global standards, adding that educators should upskill to improve learning outcomes. He said stressed the need for a digitised curriculum and improved pedagogy skills for the nation not to lag behind in the comity of developed countries. Echono spoke  at   a capacity-building workshop for Colleges of Education organised by National Commission for Colleges of Education (NCCE) and TETFUND. According to him, the workshop which had as theme: “Enhancing pedagogical skills and curriculum development for quality education delivery in Nigerian Colleges of Education,” was aimed at equipping institutions to fulfill roles and enhance nation-building. He said:”The issue of pedagogical skills cannot be ignored.The nation must place premium on pedagogy and curriculum development to move forward. We need to put in place a digitised curriculum and the infrastructure to drive pedagogy.”   ‘In service training boosts learning’     Provost seeks govt’s support for indigent students     Tackling depression among students (2)   Echono, who warned that an  obsolete curriculum would result in stagnation and retrogression, stated that efforts must be made to improve educators. He described  modern educators as  facilitator of learning, hence,they should be versatile in utilising technology and expansive in their thought processes. Executive Secretary National Commission for Colleges of Education (NCCE), Prof. Paulinus Chijioke Okwelle, said quality educators are the focal point of quality education, therefore, serious efforts must be put on training them in line with global best practices. Okwelle noted that a well-articulated curriculum was key to addressing the challenges. Vice Chairman Committee of Provosts, Dr Anene Obiakor,said National Certificate of Education (NCE) should not go extinct, adding that it was the best level for pedagogy. Obiakor also bemoaned lack of enrollment in Colleges of Education despite TETFUND’s intervention.