Breaking barriers to girl child education in the North has long become a necessity because the barriers are formidable and out-of-school girls disturbingly many. The factors keeping girls out of school, have included preference for male child education by some parents at the expense of the girl child as well as poverty, early marriage, unplanned pregnancy, among others. Overcoming those factors by creating educational possibilities for girls around the Northeast and especially girls around Adamawa State, has thus been a comforting development for a while now. One organisation which has achieved milestones in working around the barriers in Adamawa State, is African Centre for Leadership, Strategy & Development (Centre LSD), which, intervening directly and mobilising communities to act by themselves, has revived many otherwise hopeless situations. At a recent event, Centre LSD challenged communities on need to return eight million northern children, most of them girls, to school. Community leaders from the three senatorial zones of the state who had joined education and government officials at a subnational summit on girlchild education held in the state capital, Yola, were charged to be angry about low enrolment of northern girls in school and to take active part in changing the trend. Centre LSD Executive Director, Mr Monday Osasah, recounted at the summit how his NGO had returned 1,451 Adamawa girls to school and impacted vocational skills on over a thousand other girls through its Safe Space project in the last three years under its ‘Community-Led Collective Action for Girlchild Education (C-CAGE) project. He explained that through the project, implemented in the three representative local government areas of Song (for Central Senatorial Zone), Numan (Southern Zone), and Maiha (Northern Zone), the Centre LSD as supported by Malala Fund, had consistently encouraged the participation of benefiting communities.   ‘How Dangana emerged KEDCO’s new MD’     Lalong charges employment council to generate 20,000 jobs      Police inspector needs N8.6m to regain hearing loss   Figures have it that about eight million northern schoolage children are out of school, most of them in the Northeast and most of them girls. Similarly, a Foundation working on ways to enhance attendance and retention of girls in schools, Jamil Al Hakeem Foundation, has started a project to achieve appreciable education for the girlchild. Jamil Al Hakeem Foundation hosted in Yola an ‘Agenda for Mapping and Design Workshop on Girls Attendance and Retention in Schools’ to chat ways to address low number of girls starting and completing their educational career. Chairperson of the Foundation, Hasiya Nyako, said, “It’s a known fact that young women with high potentials fail to make the best of such potentials because of poor rate of attendance and retention in school, and that’s what this workshop addresses. “We are here today with resource persons to deliberate on the issue and suggest solutions because we, especially those of us around the North, need our young women to be properly educated.” The Jami Al Hakeem Foundation intervention on Girls Attendance and Retention in Schools, also supported by Malala Fund, is a three-year programme scheduled for implementation in four Norteast states, namely Adamawa, Gombe, Yobe and Borno. Consultant of the programme, Dr Shehu Mohammed Abdullahi, said cultural practices exist that damn female education and that Jami Al Hakeem Foundation programme aims to define those and other factors and design practical approaches to address them.