Nigeria became a Republic in 1963 at a time one of the principal architects of the independence in 1960, and easily the brightest mind in good governance in person of Chief Obafemi Awolowo was on trial for an alleged treasonable felony along other lieutenants of his party, the then Action Group. This was a person Harold Macmillan, British Prime Minister described in 1969 as one who would make an excellent American president and a successful British prime minister any day! Yet his government thought out of sheer intolerance of his guts coupled with primitive peevishness of some of his tribesmen decided to put him in gaol for some time. In the midst of the trial, the enemies colluded with themselves to eliminate his first son, a Cambridge trained lawyer, in an auto crash to permanently weaken his psychological comportment as a prelude or fore runner to his political extinction. But he came out of prison triumphantly with retributive punitive vengeance against his tormentors. He was released to save Nigeria from imminent collapse. Back in Yakubu Gowon’s government as finance commissioner and vice chairman of the federal executive council, he controlled the economy of the country in its most turbulent period of civil war (1967-1970), without borrowing a dime from any western nation U.S, Soviet Union, China, France or UK or Scandinavia countries. This economic management skills was well alluded and superlatively appreciated by Dr. Okonjo Uweala in her classical work. To save Nigeria, he experimented various economic policies including changing the national currency which quickly accelerated the surrender of the rebel forces. This most brilliant economic policy rather than be appreciated was envied by some military adventurers including Olusegun Obasanjo as alluded to by Brigadier-General Godwin Alabi-Isama in his classical and compelling work: The tragedy of Victory: On the spot account of Nigeria- Biafra war in the Atlantic Theatre. A prophet is never appreciated except in his country. Having finished his assignment at the closure of the war, he honourably resigned his appointment in 1971 with lasting records in the Ministry of Finance with untainted integrity. His colleagues who stayed behind were either worsted by military-induced scandal until they were purged out. His attempt to run for presidency in 1979 and 1983 were frustrated by what he himself described as ‘JUDELEX COUP’ the conspiracies of Judiciary, Executive and Electoral Commission of the period. Perhaps, it was the working of his fate. But Nigerians have been regretting the wrong choices of leadership over time. In 1993, Nigeria populace were raised in their hope to invest leadership in another enigma, called Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola, a business mogul and philanthropist per-excellence. He had been an earlier beneficiary of an Awolowo’s progressive educational facility which made him to read accountancy at graduate level abroad with distinction. He became a success in private business where anything he founded became Gold. He was not initially liked because of his association with feudal aristocratic caste represented by the National Party of Nigeria – the party in government at the centre between (1979-1983), while his home region – the West was in the Unity Party of Nigeria. However at the epochal formation of the Ibrahim Babangida’s government political parastatals SDP and NRC, he drew up a populist program: Farewell to poverty which resonated with the down-trodden masses of the country across all ethnic and religious lines. He transversed all nooks and crannies of the country to canvass and elucidate on his programs to the people. He was accepted by the people across East, West and North defeating the northern military stooge at his home base in Kano. Alas, the most popular election Nigeria may ever have was wickedly and brutally annulled by the ‘maradona’ apology to Aiyekooto, Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida and his military acolytes. In an attempt to reclaim his mandate through constitutional processes, he was murdered in detention following his detention by Sani Abacha. As we approach the thirtieth year in 2023, all spiritual forces must be mobilised to allow a progressive person to ascend the saddle. For so long, anxiety and fears are being entertained in well-meaning quarters, whether the ides’ of March that truncated the 1963 and 1993 dreams would be at play in 2023.   Nigerian state and religion     Traffic: Escaping the Yellow Box trap     Soludo: Real change must step on toes   To be sure, Nigeria is currently at war, an unconventional war, what with terrorist gangs, preying to Afghanise the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Nigeria is home to banditry, kidnappings, herdsmen driving farmers from their farms. With recent Owo attack in the church, and at Kuje Correctional Centre, the Afghanistanisation and Lebanonisation of Nigeria seems at hand. How do we go from here? From point of view of experience, pedigree, precedence and accomplishments at least since debut of this fourth Republic, Bola Ahmed Tinubu has been the one who had demonstrated sufficient and experiential skills in purposeful governance. Much has said by his detractors to effect that his hype is exaggerated. So much of this was said against the late Awolowo and Abiola. On the eve of 1979 election, an Obasanjo, the transiting Head of State declared with gusto that the best candidate may not win. Every discernible Nigerian knew he was pointing to Awolowo. The first round of election was not conclusive. Obasanjo ordered the electoral body to announce Shagari as winner. The Supreme Court justices could not demand for an electoral college which the then electoral act provided for. An activist judicial observer who read Kayode Esho’s minority judgment would marvel its lucidity, objectivity and clear-headedness than the majority judgment. Even before then, Obasanjo not comfortable with the personae of Awolowo had always said that Awolowo mystique is over-exaggerated. Peer envy or primitive jealousy? The same Obasanjo at Harare Airport in Zimbabwe said Abiola is not the messiah Nigeria needed. He later recanted that he was misquoted. Others are cynically worried about Tinubu state of health. Why not pray for sustenance of his health? Who is generally healthy in today Nigeria both young and old? Some other said he (Tinubu) lacks oratory and bombastic speeches. Nigeria needs less of oratory but capability. Nnamdi Azikiwe had power of oration than Awolowo but the Ikemba of Nnewi, Dim Ojukwu observed in his Because I am involved that easterners or Ibos would have wanted Zik to perform the miracles Awo did in the west than bombastic speeches. Since 1999, the single fellow who had shown visible sign of performance is Tinubu. Progressives in Nigeria want a recast of Tinubu mystique in Lagos between (1999–2007) to be replicated in Nigeria. Awolowo said by 1959, his assignment in the Western Region had been completed. He sought for the centre because he wanted to replicate the miracle of the West to the benefit of all Nigerians. What a destiny delayed or deferred? May the good Lord remove the recycling mystery of 30 years that had retarded the progress of Nigeria as a metaphor in 2023.