Gaming is growing faster like home entertainment and audio. The jump in market growth is sustained by the ‘mobile-first’ phenomenon. According to experts, the user base is expanding, with the mobile gaming community taking the lead. In response to this, the Decentralised finance (DeFi) has launched Stakefair, a gaming platform where users can predict the outcome of matches and other events, stake digital currency on these predictions and earn money. Previously in beta known as BetDemand, it had enjoyed reception in its beta stage, onboarding over 6,000 users and recording over $800,000 in stakes. With the launch, it is set to expand to include a business-2-business API service. Founded by Akindele Akinyemi, Stakefair operates by investing staked funds in DeFi-lending pools. Stakes are converted into stablecoins. When users stake on events and lock it within a timeframe, Stakefair, then, invests this USDT in DeFi-lending pools to yield interest. What this means is that if the outcome is positive, the users get their capital and some return on their investment (RoI). If they lose, they get only their capital back.This method allows Stakefair to make a profit from the investments while allowing a no-loss staking. DeFi is an emerging financial technology that is reshaping the finance world and is the future of investment. It enables digital wallet creation and cheaper and faster money transactions.   UPDATED: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd     Ondo lawmaker, farmers protest alleged forceful farmland…     BREAKING: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd   It eliminates the need for third-party regulations and attended third-party fees and control. This decentralised system is democratising the future of investing and making it accessible by creating new digital assets and methods of ownership through cryptocurrency and other digital investments. DeFi provides an accessible and secure method of financial services that gives more control to the individual and takes control from central bank entities. This safe and secure peer-to-peer method makes DeFi the future of financial investing. Stakefair is investing in this future of financial technology by creating an avenue for diversified and equitable access to gaming returns. Anyone with internet connectivity has access to the platform and control of their stake. With the no-loss method, they are also eliminating the risks that come with using traditional financial services for gaming. Stakefair has experienced tremendous growth since its beta phase. Now it has raised $670,000 in a pre-seed fund from several investors, including Adaverse, Nestcoin, Kepple Africa Ventures, Canza Finance, and Voltron Capital, Echo VC Chain. With this seed round, they’re taking on bigger challenges and scaling the business from just business-2-customer to include a B2B model. And with its launch, the DeFi start-up is building its DeFi-lending pool and making the API infrastructure that powers it in beta, available to other businesses and developers. Stakefair is aiming to build a DeFi yield generation protocol for users and businesses and bring more profit in-house by investing funds on its splatform. Their infrastructure allows other developers to build no-loss staking platforms like theirs and other decentralised applications (dApps) for wallets, treasury management, etc. The goal is to create an ecosystem of decentralised and centralised platforms that interact with ease. Akinyemi said: “Due to the popularity of Stakefair during the beta period, we have decided to vertically integrate and build our DeFi lending and borrowing pool. That way, the lending and borrowing that generates the yield that backs our no-loss pools can happen on our own platform.”