Consumers on the Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) has launched its  payment platform in partnership with IRecharge Tech-Innovations-a payment solutions platform provider, to ease payment of bills. EKEDC’s Managing Director, Dr Tinuade Sanda, noted that the firm seeks to improve the quality of life for its customers by using technology to supply electricity. According to her, the new payment  platform will ensure  its postpaid and prepaid customers pay their bills and purchasing their prepaid meter tokens without hassles, adding that the new service enables customers to make their frequent utility bill payments through the use of a unique NUBAN account number. “While Eko Disco is making efforts toward the availability of adequate power supply to customers, we must also secure our revenue by ensuring customers find it easy to pay their electricity bills,” Sanda said. She assured EKEDC’s customers that the platform was not only fast and convenient, but was also safe for them to make their transactions. Sanda reiterated that the company would explore innovative ways to deliver values and improve its service delivery in order to maintain its leadership status in the Nigerian power industry.   Prioritising people     Was it a warning shot?     Dissociative identity disorder   The Managing Director, IRecharge Tech-Innovations, Tomi Araromi, said payment of electricity bills could be made with the transfer from one bank account to another. He added that it was aimed at providing a safe and reliable bill payment. He said: “The new payment solution provides and pairs a unique NUBAN number to every prepaid meter number and postpaid account number. “Payment to this NUBAN numbers  generates and sends a token/receipt to the payee via SMS, Email and WhatsApp without convenience fees. “Customers through this solution will have access to convenience, accessibility, transaction security, shorter turnaround time, 24/7 customer support, instant value receipt and several other benefits.” Araromi said the permanent account numbers could be retrieved through the IRecharge website, downloading the IRecharge App, by dialing a unique USSD code on any mobile phone or via WhatsApp.He said payments to these account numbers could be done via several channels such as internet banking, ATM transfer, USSD transfer, bank deposit and at any mobile money agent location (POS).    Also, the Managing Director, Polaris Bank, Innocent Ike and Mr Usifo Ogbebor, Group Head, Power Sector, Zenith Bank, lauded EKEDC and IRecharge for the initiative. The duo maintained that collection of bills was a critical part of the industry value chain, adding that the platform would improve the ease of making payments.