The Lagos State Public Works Corporation (LSPWC) has assured Lagosians of its commitment to maintaining the roads during this rainy season. LSPWC General Manager Lateef Somide gave the assurance during the tour of some maintenance sites such as Itire-Lawanson Road, Surulere, Orishigun Street, Ketu, and Agbowa-Itoikin Road, Ikorodu. Somide noted that that Lagos experienced heavy rains recently, which slowed down  the   corporation’s intervention on bad portions of roads. This, he said, has also resulted in an upsurge in the emergence of pot-holes on roads, especially those that are due for total reconstruction. He, however, said under the  administration, the agency would maintain its presence on the roads in all seasons.   Appeal Court seeks support over post- 2023 elections…     UPDATED: Buhari seeks Justice Ariwoola’s confirmation…     Interstate transporters begin 25 percent fare increase Aug…   His words: “That is why you would see our men fixing roads even in the rain, with interlocking paving stones as the hot asphalt premix normally used is not suitable for wet season.” He said further that to minimise the challenges posed by bad roads, to free movement of persons and goods during the wet season, the agency carried out palliative interventions with boulders placed on portions haf almost degenerated into craters   while cold-mixed asphalt and interlocking paving stones were used to fix some roads, depending on the terrain. Somided said the corporation deployed its men to many parts of the state immediately the rains abated to fix pot holes. “We are taking full advantage of the dry weather witnessed in the past one week to treat many defective portions day and night,” he added. Reflecting on some roads the agency had worked on in the last one week, Somide said over 20 were maintained using hot asphalt premix, 25 were treated with boulders to provide temporary relief while about eight had been fixed with interlocking paving stones. Some of the roads where bad sections were fixed are Ikorodu Road, inward Ketu; Lekki-Epe Expressway  by Ogidan Bus Stop; Oke Afa-Ejigbo Road by NNPC Bus Stop; and Ijegun Road by Abaranje Street, among others.