An ex-Provost Marshal of the Nigerian Air Force, Air Commodore Najeem Alade Sanusi (retired) has told a Federal High Court in Abuja how a former Registrar of the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Professor Adedibu Ojerinde reneged on his promise to pay him N18million from their joint venture. Sanusi, who was testifying as the second prosecution witness in the trial of Ojerinde told the court that they set up a radio station – Ifelodun Communication Ltd, owner of Gravity FM. Ojerinde is being tried on an 18-count charge marked: FHC/ABJ/CR/97/2021 by the Independent Corrupt Practices & other related offences Commission (ICPC), in which he is accused among others, of diverting public funds estimated at over N5.2bilion. Ifelodun Communication Ltd is one of the companies the ICPC claimed Ojerinde established with funds diverted. Lead in evidence by the prosecuting lawyer, Mrs. Bunmi Olugasa, Sanusi said after the station was established and it became functional, the defendant asked him to step aside for his son, Olu Ojerinde (a sitting member of the House of Representatives) to become the Managing Director (MD), while he (Ojerinde) assumes the position of the Chairman. The witness said he was asked to remain a director and shareholder, an arrangement he accepted until there was an agreement that he should be paid N18m for him to relinquish his shareholding and directorship. Read Also: Alleged N5.2b fraud: ‘How ex-JAMB Registrar Ojerinde funded our radio station’ On how they arrived at N18m as his final pay out, Sanusi said the Account Manager, Jimoh Olabisi (an ally of the defendant) did the estimation of what the investment was worth and arrived at N180m from which he (Sanusi) was to be paid 10 percent, amounting to N18m. “It was agreed that I would be paid N18m by the Chairman (the defendant). if I was paid, I was to relinquish my share capital and directorship,” he said. The witness added that not only did the defendant reneged on the agreement, he (Ojerinde) said he would no longer be able to pay such amount because he was no longer in office as the JAMB Registrar. Sanusi said after he reported to their community association – Ifelodun Omo Igboho Organisation – Ojerinde paid him N1m. Sanusi claimed that his signature was later forged on a board resolution, indicating that he had relinquished his directorship and investment, denied knowledge of the document and a Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) document.   Sam Larry disowns Portable over one million boys…     Akintoye dissolves Ilana Omo Oodua executive council     Caging Kuje escapees   While being cross-examined by defence lawyer, Ibrahim Isiyaku (SAN), the witness said he acted as the Chairman/CEO of the radio station during the formation stage because Ojerinde was still in service and chose not to openly associate with the project. Sansusi said he made efforts to get the defendant to honour his pledge, including reporting him to their community elders in Igboho. On why there was no written agreement and demand letters, the witness said: “I didn’t write any letter of demand. “I could not have written because it was a gentleman agreement. He is our brother. He is my elder. We respect him. He should not be here (standing trial in court). He is our Asiwaju. We believe everything he says. “Before coming to court to give evidence, some of the steps I took included that I called the defendant, informing him that he has not fulfilled his agreement. “And when he was not forthcoming, I went to meet his junior brother – Brigadier General Tunji Ojerinde, who was a colleague. “I told him that this was the agreement I had with his elder brother. He said I should go and meet him that it was him and I that set up the business. “I wrote a letter to Ifelodun Ono Igboho Organisation. The Chairman of the organisation and some eminent people called us to Igboho town hall. “I presented the letter to them. They went through it and advised him to fulfil his agreement to me, that they don’t want any problem associated with Gravity FM station. “I further went to meet him at the University of Ife after his retirement from JAMB. He promised to fulfil his agreement with me. “I also met prominent citizens of the town to please talk to him, yet he did not fulfil his promise. “Thereafter, I left everything in the hands of God, hoping and believing that judgment would be served. And here we are today,” the witness said. The trial resumes on October 17.