SIR: Freedom lies in the hands of the oppressed and not the oppressors. It takes the courage and the determination of the oppressed to end oppression and tyranny. It is only the oppressed that can dismantle the unjust status quo. This was exactly the situation in Philippines in 1986 when Ferdinand Marcos wanted to perpetuate himself in power through an inordinate means but was dethroned through a mass action. Marcos became the President of Philippines in 1965. The dictator amassed for himself and his cronies as at early 70s at the expense of the mass population of the country. Dissenting voices were endangered species and the situation degenerated to the extent that both Amnesty International and the International Commission for the Jurists initiated some interventions in the form of documenting the thousands of political prisoners in jail. The economy of the country was grounded to a point that the people were in abject poverty and destitution. This generated tensions and possible civil war outbreak as a Marxist guerrilla movement gained increased acceptance and support from the people. Senator Benigno Aquino was a staunch opponent of Marcos and was incarcerated from 1972 to 1980. Aquino was later assassinated in 1983 and his assassination provoked widespread revolution, though nonviolent. Over two million people demonstrated their solidarity with Aquino and resolved not to relent until Marcos was unseated. Cory Aquino, wife of Benigno, challenged Marcos in the presidential and won but Marcos deployed all the state forces and reinstated himself as the president. This attracted widespread protests which even the priests and nuns were not left out as they put their lives on the line to ensure that Marcos was unseated.   Rethinking leadership in a new dispensation     Using technology to counter fake news in the electoral…     As the race to the Villa kicks off   The statement issued by the Philippines Catholic Bishops Conference will remain a classical study in political agitation: “We are not going to effect the change we seek by doing nothing, by sheer apathy…. Neither do we advocate a bloody, violent means of righting this wrong. If we did, we would be sanctioning the enormous sin of fratricidal strife. Killing to achieve justice is not within the purview of our Christian vision in our present context. The way indicated to us now is the way of nonviolent struggle for justice…” The deduction from the above is that salvation comes from the oppressed and not the oppressors. In Nigeria, the reverse is the case: we rely on the oppressors to achieve our freedom but unfortunately they keep impoverishing us using ethnicity and religion to divide. •Okechukwu Keshi Ukegbu, <keshiafrica@gmail.com>