I told you in the first part of this series: Politicians are not worth losing a night’s sleep over, let alone risking your health for or, worse still, dying for. Many of them have no CONVICTONS. They live by the minute only for self-interests. That is the story line of the APC defeat by PDP in last Saturday’s governorship election in Osun State. The APC roof caved in. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo was absent in Osogbo when the APC top brass, of which he was a number  two, went there to give Governor Isiaka Adegboyega Oyetola last-minute backing. So was two times Osun governor Rauf Aregbesola, the Minister of Interior. Reportedly, he was away in the United States at this time of all times. If scammers are not at work, Two recent videos suggest he may have turned his back on the party. One video cited him settled before a meal at a restaurant in the United States. A Nigerian spotted Aregbesola and began to video him. Aregbesola objected, threatening to seize the camera, and they almost came to blows. The video went viral. The second video, shot in Nigeria, featured Aregbesola in a victory dance with the Adelekes. This suggested that the video may have been shot before the election victory because Aregbesola was away in the U. S. when the poll results were announced. Reading between the lines, some APC watchers believe Aregbesola may have made a widow’s mite contribution to PDP Victory .The contrary would be the case if the videos were old videos maliciously released at this time. If Aregbesola was in the video, the victory video must have been pre-recorded!  It may not be out of place, I believe, for President Muhammadu Buhari to be among the first well-wishers of victorious Nurudeen  Ademola Adeleke, while his party man, Oyetola, was planning to contest the election results in court. President Buhari is President of all, and it is not out of place also for Adeleke and Atiku Abubakar, a psychological beneficiary of Adeleke victory, to make mountains of the President’s felicitation. No one always knows where Buhari stands on any crucial issue. PDP victory  must have been upsetting to Tinubu’s presidential election camp. Former vice president Atiku Abubakar, Tinubu’s main rival, must be gloating and beating his chest, hopeful of a major inroad into Tinubu’s Southwest political fortress. He is searching for a director-general for his campaign organisation and is asking former president Olusegun Obasanjo for help. They have been arch political foes since he was vice president to president Obasanjo. The garrulous former president once thought he had the legal muscle to arrest his deputy, and actually tried to lift a finger against him. Atiku Abubakar fled abroad. Garba Shehu, the Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the amoebic or chamelionic President Buhari, a position he held before in Vice President Atiku Abubakar’s office issued at that time and instructive press statement in which he said…”for goodness sake, the vice president is the vice president of Nigeria”. President Nelson Mandela of South Africa  paid an official visit to Nigeria to help the president and the vice president resolve their differences in good time for the 2011 presidential election. Does it not surprise you that, in their 2011 election clash, Atiku told the courts Buhari was uneducated and unfit to be president, while Buhari told the courts Atiku was a Camerounian and not a Nigerian, but after Buhari won and Atiku lost, Buhari accepted from Atiku the gift of Garba Shehu as his Senior Special Media Adviser! Obasanjo supported Buhari against Atiku Abubakar in the 2015 presidential election after Buhari agreed to not run with Tinubu, a Moslem like himself, Yemi Osinbajo, a Christian. By 2019, Obasanjo and Buhari were so politically miles apart that Obasanjo swallowed his vomit and backed Atiku in a game plan that may have been designed by some major Pentecostal church leaders. For next year’s election Obasanjo had turned away again from Atiku Abubakar who is waving the olive branch. Like Tinubu, Atiku is indefatigable. He has game plans to cage Peter Obi of Labour Party and will continue to rouse the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) against Tinubu’s Moslem Moslem ticket. CAN may sleep off on a bicycle and forget it is dealing with another Fulani and a northern Moslem who may succeed a northern Moslem and Fulani it is accusing of a plan to islamise and fulanise Nigeria. It may not realise that a Southern vice president, like Alex Ekwueme or Yemi Osibanjo has little or no offset value in the president’s agenda. Peter Obi Nigeria’s tempestous election season continued to toss many of us up and down and 360 degrees everyday, rumbling and swirling our tummies, I’m not worrying our minds. We would be lucky if our hearts do not palpitate and our brains do not begin to work anti-clockwise. I was at a public events which had nothing to do with politics, and politicised persons in the group tried to slam Labour party Presidential candidate Peter Obi on the audience as if they are babies. There was too much to talk about Obi being the only politician in the Presidential election race who can “Reclaim Nigeria for Nigerians” and change Nigeria from a “Consuming Country” to a “Producing Country”. One after another,  angry speakers rose  to burst the Obi Baloon. The summary  is as follows 5.Will or can Obi stop the importation of fake pharmaceutical drugs or of those dangerous prescription drugs such as Codeine and Tramadol which are destroying the lives of young Nigerians hooked on them? Will he bring to book local farms which produce fake pharmaceuticals? Will he be able to revive genuine local pharmaceutical firms such as biode which were forced to shut down by massive illegal pharmaceutical imports. The trader does not care if his fake drugs kill other people. All he wants is money. Can Obi stand on the rostrum and tell this man that, in the reclamation of Nigeria from its wreckers, he will shut the door against him? It is not enough to don the garb of Mr Incorruptible and Mr Production. He must let the voters know the persons he wishes to reclaim Nigeria from. Surely, the list must include the trader!   ‘Kerosene price rose by 12.09% in June’     Dockworkers shut terminals     CAF AWARDS 2022: Oshoala may pick record fifth African …   As Nigeria’s automobile industry went down under the yoke of the trader, Innocent Motors deserve praise. Innocent Chukuma Nwala from an importer of motor cycle spare parts and completely knocked Down (CKD) parts, he is now the largest manufacturer of motorcycle crash helmets and household plastics in West Africa. According to a citation, the 62-year-old Nwala produces high quality household and industrial  plastics, health and safety accessories, storage containers, fixtures and fittings, electrical components and accessories, makeup high-capacity City  bus, safe,  cost-effective mini and midi buses,  pick-up  trucks and garbage collecting vehicles”, and among others. Mr. Nwala missed university education. For one year, he learned as an apprentice how to repair broken down motorcycles. From there, he opened motorcycle spare part shops. From there, he began to assemble knocked down parts of motorcycles and vehicles and to manufacture local content for them. Importation of used vehicles killed the assembly plants. In addition, there were massive imports of automobile spare parts, used or fake. I ran a Peugeot car in those days. Peugeot filters often leaked petrol in the engine, threatening engine fires. So, I changed over to Mercedes-Benz 200 fuel filters. The trader did not care if you died in a burning car. All he wanted was money and more money. The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) did nothing to arrest the rape of the market. Used automobile tyres discarded in other countries found their ways to Nigeria. Eventually, Dunlop Tyres and Michelin tyres relocated to Ghana. He is only mentioning the ills of society without stating how they arose and who the culprits are. But there are many folks who know the differences between a monkey and dog. These are raising dust against “Obidient” paraphrase of the Nigerian challenge.  the clash between young followers on the social media and the custodian of Nigerians history may almost defeat us when the campaigns come to a head. May swirl our tummies, make our brains work anti clockwise, palpitate our hearts, raise our blood pressure or even cause us sleepness nights. The PDP This party is developing the habit of getting through the law courts what it cannot obtain from the ballot box. As in 2019, it began to search for legal technical knock-out(TKO) points. The most striking of the TKOs then was the Bayelsa governorship election which was won by the APC. The PDP went to court, claiming that the deputy governor had discrepancies in his name and certificates.You will understand this TKO if I use myself as an example. My birth certificate shows I am Olufemi Babatunde Kusa.  Olufemi was my father’s choice of baptismal name for me. Babatunde was my cultural name,  suggesting I am the reincarnation of my father’s father, ikurimisa. Kusa is a shortened form of Ikurimisa ( death sees me and flees), the family name. In high school, I baptised again, this time as an adult, and adopted John. My certificates do not bear Babatunde. If I do not swear to an affidavit that  John Olufemi Kusa is the same person as Olufemi Babatunde Kusa, the court would not recognise me as either, going by the Supreme Court judgment in respect of the Bayelsa governorship election. The APC deputy governor faced this problem. The Supreme Court nullified the APC victory, saying the governorship candidate and his deputy were one legal person before the law and that what affected the heels affected the toes!  The governor- to-be inspected the parade ground where he would be sworn in  the morning after only for the Supreme Court to announce its verdict on the day of the swearing in.  Now, the PDP is out again seeking a legal knock-out of Obi and Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Presidential candidates of Labour Party and APC. He says they cannot change their running mates under the law. Both named temporary candidate  to beat the deadline for the submission of names,stating that the elections empire would be advised later of the actual candidates. PDP would like Peter Obi to be struck with Doyin Okupe, Southerner like him on  a Southsouth/Christian-Christian ticket, which it thinks may not fly. It would be  interesting for Nigerian politics if Obi gets stuck and  wins the election. I said: “interesting” because this machination would be a political poison the North would neither taste nor swallow. But what if it helps Nigeria evolve from a state to a nation? Dr. Nnamdi Azikwe fled from it in political partnership with Chief Obafemi Awolowo. As for the APC, the PDP wishes in my veiw to lock up the Northeastern votes for itself and restricts APC northern  vote hope to the Northwest where it can hope to share the votes with APC and Kwakanso’s Party, the New Nigerian Party (NNP). In that, senior citizens and some of the young people will go with it. While Peter Obi may have no effective response to a Southsouth/Christian-Christian ticket should PDP win its court case, the APC may pursue its legal agenda that Atiku Abubakar’s PDP’s presidential candidate is a Camerounian and not a Nigerian. How the Supreme Court will ride this storm and how it will affect us all remains to be seen.