Star actress, Funke Akindello-Bello has remained silent over her marriage crash with hubby, Abdulrasheed Bello aka JJC Skillz. Akindele has since topped several media charts, after the news of their separation went viral. According to JJC their six-year-old marriage which produced twin sons crashed after several unsuccessful attempts to save it through amicable resolution. He also claimed the actress kicked him out of the house three months ago. His announcement had elicited varying reactions from social media users with some speculating that the disparity in finance had a great role in their breakup. While others claimed the actress may have been one who enjoys playing the boss, subjecting the hubby as her subordinate. Many seized the opportunity to advise men not to marry a woman wealthier than them, while others prayed their own marriage works despite the failure of their revered celebrities’. Despite the social media trolls and speculations, Akindele is yet to react to the breakup.   Row over Peter Obi’s campaign posters on Muslim prayer…     Oxford University congratulates DJ Cuppy on thesis…     Police deploy over 13,000 officers for AU/UN, ECOWAS…   As of the time of filing this report, her last Instagram post, an excerpt from her popular comedy series. “Jenifa’s Diary”, shows May, 3. Akindele, however, chose to celebrate her latest accomplishment of being the only Nigerian actress to make the list of over 300 members invited to join the Oscar academy class of 2022. The ace actress and filmmaker was invited to become a member for her award-winning movie “Omo Ghetto: The Saga,” and comedy series, “Jenifa”, On June 28, 2022, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences invited 397 new members to join, including Oscar best original song winner Billie Eilish, “50 Shades” star Jamie Dornan and recent supporting actress and actor winners Ariana DeBose (“West Side Story”) and Troy Kotsur (“CODA”). Members are chosen for their professional qualifications, “with an ongoing commitment to representation, inclusion and equity remaining a priority,” the Academy announced Tuesday. Members’ duties include voting on Academy Awards. The 2022 class is 44% women, 37% belong to underrepresented ethnic/racial communities and 50% are from 53 countries and territories outside the U.S. The invitees include 71 Oscar nominees and 15 winners.