Founder of Omega Fire Ministry, Apostle Johnson Suleman has dared ‘faceless’ bloggers to show up while reacting to alleged s3xual involvement with a good number of female celebrities. A popular blog had published list of some actresses and BBNaija celebrities the cleric allegedly had illicit affairs with. The blog also accused Suleiman of being diabolical. Suleiman, in a video, said he was in the midst of an ongoing crusade when he received news that a certain blog has been dragging him alleging he was diabolical and having s3xual relations with a long list of celebrities. Slamming the blogger, the cleric with intense vituperation tagged them ‘mumu, ode’ vowing to be the one to bring about the abrupt end of the blog. Suleiman said: “You know, I’ve been busy with this crusade and I heard that the man is diabolical. Diabolic kee you dere! “Na me you wan drag?! You want to drag me? We will drag ourselves. Some of these people are people that have come to my church. “I should deny my children because you are writing something. The list no long sef, make the list 200. Mumu! Ode!! “You want to drag a generator? Na me be dragging. If you stop, you no serious. We will continue o! We will crase the craze. “I am the one that will disappear that blog. You attack politicians, you attack celebrities, you kon come my side. You have entered my trap.   Court gives EFCC nod to prosecute Ondo Speaker, lawmakers     Chioma Ifemeludike mocks colleagues denying alleged affairs…     UPDATED: Senate summons Emefiele over inflation, devaluation   “Is that the rubbish you want to write? They should give you money? They should pay you for this nonsense. “When I saw the script, one man o! See list?! One man! I was just laughing, I was calling pastor and was like who be this wan? Where this wan dey? “And trust me, some Nigerians went to those peoples’ pages and began to insult them. Anybody that typed an insult, anything they insult those people will backfire on them. “Somebody starts a line with ‘tueh tueh! Tueh tueh kee you dere! Is it that kind of person they listen to? If you get liver show your face. You can’t be hiding. You no get mind. “Look at me now, I’m insulting you, I showed my face. If you have liver, show your face. And drop your address. Let’s come and meet you there. You no well! “So that thing you posted online now, I’ll be shaking, eh Suleiman is shaking! You at me, I’m doing crusade o! Dem no dey drag me. I go use your dragging take popular. “If you want to fight me, make sure you have oxygen. Because nothing shakes me. I know some of my people will be angry with me now that I spoke. But that, ‘no talk no talk’ naim dey give dem power. “Everyone that has typed to insult people, all those people they were insulting online, you go to their page. All the celebrities, movie people they were insulting for what they didn’t do because one mumu is behind the keypad. Say diabolic, diabolic kee you dere! Urging his congregation never to cower at ‘blackmail or any form of social media intimidation, Suleiman added: “Understand how social media works. It’s 5 percent from reality. Don’t let anyone intimidate you in this life. If dem give you, give dem! Stop shaking! Don’t pay blackmailers one naira. Anything you want to write, write it. If na power tear, make e tear! “I’ve told myself, nobody will bring me down. I won’t let you. I’m on an assignment. If you want to stop me, go and meet God. Only God can stop me. Na Edo I be o!”