No fewer than 152  who  include Vice-Chancellors and principal officials in the universities have been trained on development and electronic management dashboards. The 12-week training was conducted National Universities Commission (NUC), in partnership with the National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN), Prof. Emeritus Peter Okebukola, who is the Director/Facilitator-General of the Virtual Institute for Capacity Building in Higher Education (VICBHE), said: “The 12-week intensive training was concluded for 321 participants made up of Vice-Chancellors, Directors of Academic Planning, Directors of ICT and staff of NUC and other national quality assurance agencies in Africa on “Development and Use of Management Dashboards for Academic Planning” to aid governance of the universities.” He noted that it was in a continuation to build capacities of staff in the university system in the implementation of the Blueprint on Rapid Revitalisation of University Education in Nigeria (2019-2023), which is heralding the “Rasheed Revolution.” Okebukola, who is a former NUC chief, added: “NOUN is providing the technical platform and technical expertise at no cost to participants while resource persons for VICBHE Modules are experts drawn from all over the world.” Executive Secretary, NUC, Prof. Abubakar Rasheed, noted that it was heart-warming that since its inauguration last year, VICBHE had completed four modules, and that the feedback from stakeholders had been encouraging. He commended the vice-chancellors and urged others to emulate them.   Enugu Assembly to partner relevant agencies to improve…     Idahosa varsity celebrates Adeboye’s wife, others as…     ‘How reading culture can bridge Nigeria’s knowledge gap’   Two Vice-Chancellors, Profs Ibiyinka Fuwape of Michael and Cecilia Ibru University and  Elisabetha Smaranda Olarinde of Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti (ABUA), won special awards for earning distinction in four modules implemented by VICBHE. The late Dr. Maryam Sali, former Director, Accreditation, NUC got a posthumous award. Vice-Chancellor, University of Lagos, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, noted that management dashboards are “a very important and artistic way of placing decisions before management to help in taking action or deciding on what they need to do to move the university forward”. Ogundipe said key performance data would help increase the reputation of universities and contribute to their ranking. He commended the VICBHE in developing the capacity of directors of academic planning and other members of the university in essential areas. Vice-Chancellor of NOUN, Prof Olufemi Peters, underscored the importance of integrating IT tools and solutions into their operations. He noted that the beneficiaries of the training would find the skills useful for their tasks.