After four decades, the Old Students, 1977/82 set of Ijebu Ife Community Grammar School, (IICGS) in Ijebu East local government area of Ogun State have donated a science laboratory to their alma mater. They handed over the lab at the 40th reunion ceremony during which they rekindled their love and commitment to educational advancement. President of the 1977/82 set, Kunle Adelaja said: “It was a time to give back to the school, the facilities and learning materials that would help her maintain its standard and aid the students to academic excellence. “It has been 40 years since we left here. We thought of not just celebrating our reunion but also to contribute our quota to our alma mater. That’s what informed our gathering today. We had in mind different things to give to the school but when we came to inquire, we realised that some aspects had been met by another set.” He added: “Expansion and equipping the school’s Science Laboratory became our project based on the school’s needs. For us, it is a dream come true. It is our hope and prayer that it would be judiciously used for the progress of the students and the school as a whole.’’ Adelaja said the laboratory would help the students to learn and acquire new skills beyond theoretical works. Chairman, Organizing Committee of the 40th anniversary and reunion of the set, Owolabi Taiwo said the school deserved nothing short of the best. According to him the need for giving back to the college would not have been there if the college did not impact members of the set or any other positively.   Kwara signs N30,000 minimum wage with workers     Next time you see an Oke Apomu LGEA school     Visually Impaired Student gets Special Recognition as…   “When we were planning this anniversary, we sat down and reflected on what has impacted our lives thus far and came up with the idea of giving back to our great Alma Mater that has done so much for us. Acting Deputy Vice Chancellor of the Lagos State University of Science and Technology (LASUST), Dr. Gbemavo Kolawole Godonu, thanked the old students for taking keen interest in the school and student’s development. He noted that this called for collective responsibility as no single individual or group of persons could fix it all alone. According to him, apart from the need for an urgent physical infrastructure intervention in the school, there is also the need for mentoring, psychological and social upliftment of the girls in the college. Godonu added that education must be given a holistic approach for its benefit to be impactful, adding that it was time the country needed to do less lip service in tackling the challenges in the education sector. Chairman of Ijebu-East local government, Hon. Wale Adedayo, noted that there is need for government at all levels to work the talks, especially in the area of infrastructure development, training and re-training of teachers and empowerment in a bid to meet up with the 21st century demands. “It is on this premise that we are calling on well-meaning Nigerians, corporate bodies and organisations to partner with the government in ensuring that the school attains its much desired height,” he added. Principal of the school, Mr. O.R Adesanya expressed delight at the gesture of the set, adding that it was a step in the right direction. According to him, the donation of the laboratory which would complement the existing ones will further enhance teaching and learning of science in the school. He said the school remained focused in its pursuit for both academic excellence and the molding of all round individuals, as well as unlocking and developing potential.