A founding member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Eze Chukwuemeka Eze, has claimed that a former Transport Minister, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, influenced the nominations of Udi Odum and Umana Okon Umana as ministers. Eze in a statement in Port Harcourt on Tuesday said the former Rivers Governor was also behind the reappointment of Prof. Henry Ugboma as the Chief Medical Director (CMD) of the University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital. Eze said Amaechi’s actions and his participation at the presidential primary of the APC as a major contender were part of the reasons party faithful trooped out to give him heroic reception in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. He said Amaechi proved himself a force in the politics of Nigeria after defeating a sitting Vice President and a Senate President to emerge first runner-up in the concluded primary.   Akeredolu’s CCTV order     Don’t drop Okowa as running mate, Igbo youths warn…     Ekweremadu and NASS’ overreach   Eze, who is a loyalists of Amaechi, said the warmth reception shown the former Minister by Rivers people demonstrated their boundless love, unalloyed support, unwavering loyalty and total acceptance of Amaechi as the trusted and incontrovertible political leader. Eze said: “Amaechi had returned to the state to strengthen, reassure, encourage and celebrate with his people after influencing the nomination of Udi Odum and Umana Okon Umana as minister-designates representing Rivers and Akwa Ibom states respectively as well as the reappointment of Prof Henry Ugboma as the Chief Medical Director of the University of Port Teaching Hospital (UPTH)”. He said Amaechi used his homecoming to visit key stakeholders of the Rivers APC and the families of two party members, Motats Loveday and Onimitein Samuel, Secretaries of Degema and Akuku-Toru local government chapters of the APC, who lost their lives in a motor accident on their way to Port Harcourt after Presidential primaries in Abuja. Eze said Amaechi tasked the people of the state to ensure the victory of APC candidates by mobilising and strengthening their units in the forthcoming elections. He recalled that the former governor allayed the fears of party faithful over the litigations against the party on the conduct of its primaries in the state describing the litigants as troublemakers, who wanted a repeat of the 2019 experience of the party in the state. The party chief described Amaechi as a great leader, who should be motivated and encouraged to continue to give out his best for the country’s good.