Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom has explained why he and other chieftains of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are not happy with the party’s presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, and the party itself. Ortom spoke last night while featuring on a Channels Television programme, “Political Today”. The governor said the party and Atiku have not done enough to placate those offended by the way Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa was picked as the running mate. He confessed that it was difficult for him to decide whether to support Atiku or any other party’s candidate in the 2023 general election. Ortom wondered why Atiku allowed a 17-man committee to brainstorm on the choice of a running mate when he already knew who he wanted to choose for the position. The governor said after rigorous meetings, 14 out of the 17 members voted for Wike as the vice presidential candidate. According to him, almost all the other party chieftains who took part in the process were not happy with the unfolding events in the party. Ortom stressed that as a loyal party man, there was nothing he could do other than express his displeasure against his party and Atiku. While acknowledging that it was the prerogative of his party’s presidential candidate to choose his running mate, the governor wondered why the 17-man advisory committee was constituted to advise the party on the matter. He said three persons – Wike, Okowa and Akwa Ibom State Governor Emmanuel Udom – were recommended but 14 out of the 17 committee members chose Wike. He said if Atiku had chosen Okowa by himself, there would not have been any problem.   Prioritising people     Was it a warning shot?     Dissociative identity disorder   For peace to reign and for PDP to make headway in next year’s elections, Ortom advised the national leadership of the party to visit Wike and mend fences with him. The governor said Wike was not consulted before the selection process, despite his monumental support for PDP when others chickened out. He said: “When people ran away from this party, Wike was on the ground. Wike was the one that made me return to the PDP. “Injustice was done to me in 2015; it was Wike that came here and convinced me to come to PDP. I came to PDP. We were working and you do injustice to him and you think he would keep quiet? This is not fair. “I believe in justice, equity and fairness. It is not enough to say you will put a call through to him. It is an insult to put a call through to him. You (should) go to him. The party leadership at the national level should go to Wike and appeal to him. “Wike is a pillar of this party. Everybody knows. Wike was second to Atiku. Atiku should go to him. But it is unfair to say that you just put a call through to Wike. “I have no problem with Okowa. He is my friend. But Wike should have been consulted and spoken to.” Asked if he will support Atiku’s candidature, Ortom said: “I am divinely-led politician who will not do anything except I hear from God. “So, presently, I am hibernating and praying for God to direct me.” On the call by former Ekiti State Governor Ayodele Fayose that the South is to produce the next president, Ortom said Nigerians knew that he had been calling for southern presidency. But he said since his party had decided otherwise, the party’s position should be respected.