This electoral season may well turn out to be the most transformational in recent history. We’ve seen the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) rip up the manual on power rotation, throwing up Atiku Abubakar as its presidential candidate, when conventional wisdom suggested it should have looked South. On Sunday, All Progressives Congress (APC) flagbearer Bola Ahmed Tinubu who, in 2015 sacrificed the chance to be Vice President because of agitation against the same-faith ticket within his party, named former Borno State Governor, Kashim Shettima, his running mate. Both men are Muslim. The announcement was at once bold and controversial. For years, it was taken as an article of faith that presidential tickets must be balanced not only along regional lines, but also by the faith of the nominees. That was until 1993 when the late M.K.O. Abiola broke tradition to run with Babagana Kingibe. Against all odds the supposedly taboo ticket cantered to comfortable victory. Almost 30 years to the day, Tinubu has gone down the same path – referencing that unusual moment in Nigerian history when he declared in his announcement that “the spirit of 1993 is upon us.” Driving these critical decisions in PDP and APC is calculation as to what best guarantees success at next year’s polls – even if those steps stir up the worst emotional reactions. In the main opposition party, the junking of zoning has left a deep scar and looming fear it would pay a costly price in February 2023. Atiku provoked further rage within his party with the handling of the process for selecting a running mate. Today, the fallout is rated more damaging for his electoral prospects than the fact that he’s a Northerner attempting to succeed a two-term Northern president. Although, the preceding debate indicated Tinubu was likely to pick a Muslim to counter PDP’s strategy, that hasn’t dampened reactions. Indeed, it has provoked extreme chatter both ways. So how much of a price would he and his main rival pay given the rage of those offended by their decisions? Would they sulk in silence given limited alternative options or would they embark on something more subversive? There’s no doubt that anger may be a factor at next year’s election: disaffection over the actions of presidential candidates, but also fury over the incumbent government’s record. What with an economy in dire straits and the seemingly intractable challenge of insecurity. Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, acknowledged this recently when he advised voters not to cast ballots angrily but thoughtfully. The anger factor is present at every election and influences voter behaviour to some extent. The 2023 exercise won’t be any different. But I believe rage is often overdone and its impact exaggerated. For one thing, elections aren’t holding tomorrow: they are not due for another six months. One month in politics is a lifetime, six months an eternity. Several weeks ago, people were fuming over zoning. But today many have made their peace with fact that Atiku is the PDP candidate and if he wins, he would succeed another Northerner and the heavens won’t fall. It’s the same thing with APC’s Muslim-Muslim ticket. People would huff and puff, calm would prevail and negotiations begin. By election day it wouldn’t matter whether Shettima is Ayatollah Khomeini. You only need to look where the outrage is coming from to understand why this is so. The North isn’t complaining about abandonment of zoning. They certainly won’t be weeping and wailing if one of theirs is handed the keys to Aso Rock again. So, PDP only has to worry about its traditional strongholds in the Southeast and South-South. In these two zones the anger isn’t because zoning was discarded. After all, Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, host of that Southern Governors Meeting in Asaba which produced a grand resolution demanding the next president come from the South, was only too glad to grab the next best thing. Where there’s bitterness, it’s because the East and Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, were overlooked for number two. As for the APC, its same-faith ticket has been largely well received across the North. It would be illusory to expect 100% approval given substantial Christian populations in some areas. Still, the reception hasn’t exactly reached the doomsday day dimensions some predicted. In the Southwest people are not rioting in the streets over it. Even if we assume that there are those offended in the Southeast and South-South by Tinubu’s choice, I’m sure the ruling party would take what it can get from the two zones.   2023: North West APC backs Tinubu-Shettima’s ticket     Banditry: Extend security forces’ retirement age,…     BREAKING: Lagos PDP Gov candidate unveils Funke Akindele as…   And as Bishop Matthew Kukah has pointed out, there’s no guarantee all Christians would vote for Christian candidates and all Muslims for Muslim ones. What the agitators conveniently gloss over is that at the top of the APC and PDP tickets are two Muslims. There’s no assurance that the religious associations have such a grip on their members as to ultimately direct their voting behaviour. Despite such overt interventions on the part of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) on behalf of then President Goodluck Jonathan in 2015, he lost. In reality, much of the noise is just political drama and gamesmanship. Whenever the Muslim-Muslim ticket is talked about the historical point of reference is June 12, 1993. But we forget that in 2011 the then Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) fielded former Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) chairman, Nuhu Ribadu, as its presidential candidate, with former Guaranty Trust Bank MD/CEO and founder, Fola Adeola, as running mate. There was zilch outrage over that pairing mainly because it was a small platform with little chance of defeating the then ruling PDP government. That suggests that much of the hits Tinubu is getting over his decision is affirmation that he’s the man to beat. In politics, the frontrunner is often the target of the most vitriolic attacks – especially if there’s a sense that he’s pulling clear of the field. Still talking of transformation, this is the cycle where the oft-discussed prospect of a third force to challenge the dominance of the APC and PDP looked like materialising with the brief courtship between former Kano State Governor, Rabiu Kwankwaso’s, New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP) and Peter Obi’s Labour Party (LP). Even if their alliance had born fruit, it stood little chance of displacing the big two. On their own any hopes of winning the presidency are no better than pipe dreams. But try telling that to their boisterous supporters who believe that wishes are horses. Arising from their challenge – especially on the Obi side – is the false narrative that Nigerian youths have adopted him as standard bearer. Nothing could be farther from the truth. I have argued that no demographic of any country’s population flows entirely in one direction politically. In the US you have youths who are Republicans just as you will find many who are sympathetic to the Democrats. In Nigeria, all major parties have robust youth wings and there’s no evidence they are falling over themselves to embrace some third party revolution. Any suggestion to the contrary is the fond wish of people comforting themselves on social media. This cycle age has become a hot button issue, not just because the incumbent is close to 80 and has battled health challenges, but due to the two main contenders being in their seventies. Even Obi who is supposedly the ‘youthful’ candidate would be 61 later this month, while Kwankwaso is 65. Many younger people frustrated with the condition of the country blame “all these old people” and argue that things would be better if someone closer to their age were elected president. The major flaw in their position is the assumption that the presidency is the only platform for governing and affecting lives. Truth is the vast majority of people who have held office as local government chairmen, commissioners, state assembly members, governors, members of the Federal House of Representatives and senators since 1999, fall within the 30 to 50 years age bracket. Goodluck Jonathan became governor at 48, succeeded the late Umaru Yar’Adua as president at 53. He was voted out office by voters unimpressed with his performance. There are more young people in office across the land than those in their sixties and seventies. How many states, or arms of government overseen by them are such shining examples? Nigerians remember past stellar performers as state governors – the likes of the late Lateef Jakande in Lagos and Sam Mbakwe in Imo – not because of their age but because of what they did in office. All over the world voters are electing people based on their vision and current challenges facing their countries, not the youthful good looks or physical strength of candidates. The US voted the seventy-something Donald Trump into office and replaced him four years later with the even older Joe Biden. Nigeria’s reality is that one of two septuagenarians would be its president next year. It would be more profitable to devote our energies to interrogating their vision for addressing the country’s challenges rather than spewing bile and hate on the internet.