The lawmaker representing Ibadan Souteast Constituency 2 in the Oyo State House of Assembly, Ademola Popoola, is dead. Popoola, who died on Thursday night, was 46. The lawmaker died at the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, where had been receiving treatment for an undisclosed ailment. Until his death, Popoola was Chairman of the House Committee on Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters. He recently won a return ticket to fly the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) flag in the constituency. Governor Seyi Makinde, who expressed shock, described the lawmaker’s death as sad, painful and a huge loss to the state. He said: “The news of the death of my brother, Ademola Popoola, representing Ibadan Southeast II, is shocking and painful. His death is a huge loss to the state, the House of Assembly and the PDP, on which platform he was elected into the House.   Lagos Assembly denies passing Sharia law     Oyo High Court begins vacation tomorrow     Obasa, lawmakers mourn ex-Lagos speaker Kinyomi   “He was a consummate lawmaker and an individual who was passionate about the development of the state. He gave his best efforts towards ensuring harmonious relationship between the executive and the legislature. “On behalf of the government and people of Oyo State, I commiserate with the House of Assembly, the PDP family and the entire Popoola family on this sad loss. It is my prayer that God grants repose to his soul and gives everyone the fortitude to bear the loss.” Speaker of the Assembly Adebo Ogundoyin described Popoola’s death as a grievous and heartbreaking news. He said: “We are deeply saddened and grieved by this painful and untimely exit of one of us. This is unbearable. He was a patriotic, selfless and hardworking lawmaker who gave his best for the service of Oyo State House of Assembly, his constituents and indeed the entire people of Oyo State. “I visited him in the hospital and he showed signs of recovery. Little did I know that I was seeing him for the last time few days ago when I went in company of some lawmakers. “He was a peaceful and easy-going gentleman admired by all. We just lost a bridge builder, a man of peace and a gentleman par-excellence. He will be sorely missed by everyone.”