Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) have arrested one of the terror suspects, Suleiman Sidi, who escaped from the Medium Security Correctional Centre, Kuje, during an attack on the facility last week. Spokesman of the Agency Femi Babafemi said in a statement that the fleeing terror suspect was arrested in the early hours of yesterday at Area 1 Motor Park, in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Babafemi said Sidi about boarding a vehicle to Maiduguri, Borno State, when he was apprehended. When he was searched, three wraps of cannabis sativa were found on him, he said. “During preliminary interview, the wanted terror suspect confirmed he was remanded at the Kuje Correctional Centre for terrorism and robbery charges, adding that he was indeed one of the inmates who escaped from the facility last Tuesday,” he said. Also, Kazeem Murtala, who equally escaped from the Kuje Custodial Centre, was captured in Suleja, Niger State. Police spokesman Wasiu Abiodun said the 54-year-old man was arrested in a compound in the Bakasi area of Suleja based on credible intelligence. The inmate was arrested at about 10.30 pm on Saturday, Abiodun said in a statement. During interrogation, the inmate was said to have confessed that he escaped from Kuje Custodial Centre during the attack where he was serving a jail term for the past two years. The Commissioner of Police, Monday Bala Kuryas, who commended the effort of the patrol team appreciated members of the public for providing the intelligence that led to the capture of the inmate.   2023: North West APC backs Tinubu-Shettima’s ticket     Banditry: Extend security forces’ retirement age,…     BREAKING: Lagos PDP Gov candidate unveils Funke Akindele as…   The Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) yesterday confirmed the authenticity of a leaked memo that an attack by the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) on Abuja was imminent. NSCDC’s Director of Public Relations, Olusola Odumosu, who confirmed that the memo, told our correspondent that it was unfortunate that such a security document could be leaked. He said: “It is an intelligence report from the office of the Commandant, NSCDC Federal Capital Territory Command, addressed to the FCTA for necessary action to avert the impending attack. “It was leaked by unknown people unfortunately. Security reports are crucial to ensuring that proactive steps are taken to safeguard lives and property.” A branch of the NSCDC in the FCT raised the alarm in a memo to the Permanent Secretary of the FCT on plans by ISWAP to attack some communities, especially Christians, in the city. The memo dated July 8, 2022 was signed by Peter Maigari, the FCT Commander of the Corps. The leaked memo caused panic and anxiety in some quarters. ISWAP claimed credit for the attack on the custodial centre last week in which four persons were killed, 16 injured and 64 members of Boko Haram were freed by the terrorists. Titled: “Renewed threat of attack by ISWAP,” the letter said: “Certified intelligence reveals that members of the decimated terrorist group ISWAP have concluded plans to launch more coordinated and spontaneous attacks on selected targets within the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and had declared war against Christians in Nigeria. “Intelligence abounds that ISWAP terrorist group has claimed responsibilities of the Tuesday July 5, 2022 attack on Kuje Medium Security Custodial Centre, releasing their adherent members. “The foregoing is to enable them hibernate in targeted communities (FCT) and re-strategise for further terrorist activities, especially on soft targets to keep the agenda of the group alive to the public. “Taking into consideration the recent terrorist attack on Kuje medium security custodial centre good two hours without any security resistance indicated their readiness to carry out more coordinated attacks in selected cities/towns, security formations, schools, and worship centres in FCT, hence the release of their members for more formidable squad to achieve their dastardly act.” The NSCDC recommended that “Against this backdrop, it is advised that counter measures be emplaced, and there is need to review existing security measures around such targets and other sensitive facilities with security formations, in FCT to frustrate the planned attack. This report is submitted for your information and necessary action.”