The Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN), yesterday, shut the nation’s largest container terminal, APM Terminals, Apapa, Lagos over its refusal to follow the Collective Bargaining Agreement it entered into with the workers. The industrial action crippled business at the Lagos port. But the management of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), and the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC), it was gathered, have wadded into the matter by directing the terminal operator to find an immediate and lasting solution to the problem. Reporters, who visited the port were, however, prevented by the security agents at the gate from entering the terminal. The President-General of the MWUN, Comrade Adewale Adeyanju, told The Nation that if the management of the terminals refused to listen to the workers and attend to their demands, the terminal would remain under lock and key. According to him, “our members have shut APM Terminals, Apapa. All the examination offices inside the container terminal that are being used by officials of the Nigeria Customs Service are currently under lock and key by our members. He further said the “agitation is connected to the refusal of the APM Terminals, Apapa management to review the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) of the workers which ought to be reviewed every year’’.   ‘Kerosene price rose by 12.09% in June’     CAF AWARDS 2022: Oshoala may pick record fifth African …     9mobile unveils online streaming platform   “It is an internal agreement between the workers and the terminal operator, but the terminal operator has refused to review the condition of service of the workers this year and that is why everywhere in APM Terminals is under lock and key. “The management of the APM Terminals has decided to be funny by not reviewing the condition of service of the workers. I am even going to address the workers very soon. If APM Terminals refuses to meet with us, then the shutdown of port operations at APM Terminals, Apapa will continue,” he said. Also, the spokesman of the Apapa Customs Command, Abubakar Usman, explained that Customs officers were inside the ports but couldn’t access their examination offices because the workers have locked them up. “Our officials are inside the ports. They have not been locked out of the ports. However, their offices have been locked up by the protesting workers. If the officers cannot access their offices, there is no way they can perform any cargo clearance duty inside the port. Our men are there but are currently not working because of the protesting workers who have locked up all the cargo examination offices inside APM Terminals, Apapa.” A clearing agent, Mr Gbade Adeyemo, said: Since we came here around 8.30am, no work has been done inside APM Terminals, Apapa. We were not even allowed to enter “We were told that the NPA and NSC have called the terminal operator over the issue. But we don’t know when the issue will be resolved.” MWUN had warned APM Terminals over its refusal to review the condition of service of port workers.