The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar has commended Jaiz Charity and Development Foundation for empowering the indigent in Sokoto. Sultan Abubakar, represented by Wazirin Sokoto, Prof Sambo Wali Junaidu, spoke during disbursement of Zakat by Jaiz Foundation in collaboration with Sokoto State Zakat and Waqf Commission (SOZECOM). No fewer that 84 beneficiaries went home with cash and items worth N7.1 million. The items include 15 grinding machines, 10 sewing machines and 10 deep freezers. 41 people got money for medical support, three  students got education relief fund while a debtor was assisted with fund to pay his debt. Sultan Abubakar enjoined the beneficiaries to make best use of the items gotten. He promised continued support for any move aimed at promoting the wellbeing of the people.   Buhari: ‘Something to remember me by’     Court dismisses suit seeking Oyetola’s disqualification     Kwankwaso picks Bishop Idahosa as running mate   Chief Executive Officer of the foundation, Dr Abdullahi Shuaib said the interventions were made possible with Zakat funds collected from Muslims and corporate organisations “who reposed confidence in us.” Zakat, Dr Shuaib said, is a potent and effective Islamic social finance instrument that is capable of eradicating poverty and deprivation in our community. “It has been tested, confirmed and trusted as a tool to provide financial inclusion of the unbanked, income redistribution, and closing the gap of inequality among the rank and file of the community as mentioned in the Qur’an,” he said. Chairman of Jaiz Foundation, Mallam Adamu Bello, represented by a Board of Trustee member, Alhaji Mukhtar Sani AbdulKadir, said Jaiz was deeply pained and concerned about the plight of the poor, needy and vulnerable Nigerians. The foundation, he said, believed that true happiness, peace and security will permeate the society only when everyone gives back happiness to others. Chairman of SOZECOM Mallam Lawal Maidoki, thanked Jaiz Foundation for the concern shown to the plight of the beneficiaries of the Zakat and items distributed. Maidoki, the Sadaukin Sakkwato, said the beneficiaries were screened and selected from different districts.