The presidential candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; APC national chairman Senator Abdullahi Adamu; Senate President Ahmed Lawan and 10 Governors of the ruling party have told Osun residents to reelect Governor Adegboyega Oyetola on Saturday. The capital city was agog as APC held its mega rally at Osogbo township stadium ahead of Saturday’s Osun governorship poll Dignitaries at the event include: Governors Babajide SanwoOluu (Lagos); Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano); Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo); Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi); Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna); Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti); Umara Zulum (Borno); Abdulrazak Abulrahmon (Kwara); Hope Uzodima (Imo); Abubakar Sani Bello (Niger) and Deputy Governor of Nasarawa, Dr Emmanuel Akabe. Interim National APC chair Chief Bisi Akande; former APC National chair Adams Oshiomhole; National Secretary of APC Senator Iyiola Omisore, Senator Remi Tinubu and other big wig of the party attended the rally. Tinubu said: “Please do the same thing that was done in Ekiti and vote massively for APC. Come out with your PVC to vote. “Be vigilant after voting on Saturday. Think about the future of your children, think about their education and vote to assure your future. Oyetola is the next to deliver victory after the Ekiti election. You need to show PDP and mushroom parties like Labour Party that is making an empty boast.   Man allegedly kills brother with rat poison over land…     PDP zonal treasurer resigns over ‘unjust…     Firemen avert disaster as PMS laden tanker falls at Costain   “We are coming here for the dance of victory after the election. Oyetola fulfilled the promise in the first term.” Lawan lauded Oyetola’s prudence and efficiency in managing the state’s meagre resources, calling on citizens to vote massively for Oyetola. Lawan said: “I’m bringing solidarity from the National Assembly. We are believers of this party and its candidate because Osun has witnessed serious and massive transformation in the last three and a half years.” Adamu said the mega rally was an indication the APC was not taking any chances with the affairs of Osun, saying the State deserves a leader like Oyetola in its quest for development. Adamu said: “This is a mega rally to promote our candidate. We are taking no chances with the affairs of Osun because the state deserves a leader like Oyetola in its quest for development. This is why we have come in full strength to support him in a bid to ensure his re-election. Those who have a fair mind will testify that he has done so much since he became governor in 2018. “We are here not only to testify to what he has done but to appeal to you to turn out in large numbers to vote massively for him. We are anticipating a better outcome than what we had in Ekiti and by the grace of God, we are sure of victory. I want you to be the APC ambassadors, telling those who are not here what you have seen. Continue to spread the good works of this government in the nooks and crannies of the state.” Bagudu assured that Oyetola has the backing of all APC governors in the coming election, having earned it with his outstanding performance.