Doctors have postponed the kidney transplant of rapper Eedris Abdulkareem’s kidney transplant till further notice. The ailing rapper, who was scheduled to undergo the transplant surgery on July 27 after raising £4,269 (N2,136,345.49), will only be undergoing dialysis pending a new date. According to a statement signed by Myke Pam on behalf of Lakreem Entertainment Inc., Eedris will keep to the three times weekly dialysis prescribed by the doctors. The statement reads: “In furtherance to our earlier report on the health challenges of the Nigerian Hip Hop Czar Eedris Abdulkareem, and our promise and commitment to keep you updated as we move along with the process, the management of Lakreem Entertainment on behalf of the Abdulkareem family, hereby reports that the scheduled kidney transplant surgery which was tentatively slated for the July 27 (yesterday), have been moved forward by the doctors.   Drag anyone on Apostle Suleiman’s alleged s3x list – Yul…     Sanwo-Olu pledges support for 15th Headies Awards     Blessing CEO laments not making Apostle Suleiman’s alleged…   “Eedris who is still in high spirits and making a few cameo appearances as an artiste, is religiously undergoing the prescribed 3 times weekly dialysis, while abiding by all the doctor’s directives and required lifestyle changes. “As we await the substantive surgery date, which may take place any moment from now as all arrangements have been made, we wish to also use this opportunity to thank and appreciate everyone for your massive outpouring of prayers, love, care, affection and support. “The show of love and support from both home and abroad have been quite amazing and truly overwhelming. Most importantly, it means the world to the ailing Eedris, as it undoubtedly represents the required tonic that is most helpful in propelling him to fight and win this battle. We will be forever grateful! “In conclusion, we humbly implore that the prayers and solidarity continue until we cross this crooked bridge of obstruction with solid faith in God and verifiable medical science.”