Flourish Africa, founded by Africa’s richest woman, Apostle Folorunso Alakija, has announced the graduation of the first batch of 500 female entrepreneurs of the Flourish Africa Business and Life Skills Training programme. The programme, targeted at female-owned Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), was sponsored by Mrs Alakija to raise the next generation of economically empowered women on the continent, starting with Nigeria for the next five years. Mrs Alakija established Flourish Africa to act as a catalyst for the advancement of African women. The movement was formed to provide female millennials and adults with access to information that will help them advance in their jobs, love lives, and relationships. And in keeping with her passion to see women become truly fulfilled and empowered, Mrs Alakija launched the N1 billion fund to promote female-owned businesses in Africa on her 70th birthday, last July. At the 12-week intensive life skills training programme, which also aimed at providing such women with the skills needed to manage successful and financially viable businesses, the  beneficiaries were exposed to world-class coaching and business mentoring from industry experts, including herself.   NGX woos investors to Africa’s growth market     Roles of capital market in national development, by experts     Nigeria eyes $6.82b global ginger market   Mrs Alakija urged the women to support themselves and exhorted the importance of passing on the lessons they had gained. “Business is God’s business,” she said, emphasising the need to “place God first in business”. She said it was the key to her success as an entrepreneur. The Engagement Associate, Flourish Africa, Eloho Iyamu, said in addition to the training, the graduands would also partake in a business pitch competition where 100 winners will get funding of up to N2 million. In addition, the graduates will also be inducted into the  Flourish Africa Alumni Association, which has been positioned to become a knowledge and expertise powerhouse for African female-owned businesses. The graduation is expected to hold on July 17, 2022, at the Civic Centre in Victoria Island, Lagos.