In the absence of  any 11th hour miracle, whenever an assessment of performance of the Buhari government is carried out,  as from May 29 next year, using economy, security and corruption as indices, President Muhammadu Buhari may likely go down as a failed president. If this happened, the legislative arm of government would largely be blamed.  Firstly, for failing to invoke the doctrine of checks and balances to ensure that the president discharged his statutory obligations in line with national interest and aspirations.  Secondly, for failing to halt his breach of the federal character principle, and thirdly, for failing to interrogate the executive for sliding economic indices, worsening corruption, rising insecurity, capital flight, mounting loans, multiple tax burden, unemployment, and decaying infrastructure, including poor electricity and education. For these flops, the 9th National Assembly is an accessory to the country’s current woes and, therefore cannot, in any way, be absolved.  The legislature is an arm of government, co – equal, free and independent  of  executive control, yet made itself no more than an extension, or a mere apron string of the president” – Dr Mike Owhoko, in ‘Thumbs down for the 9th National Assembly’, The Nation, Tuesday, July 5, 2022. Personally nothing, not the present punishing fuel scarcity which, despite the trillions voted for petrol subsidy, Timipre Silva now tells us will continue, ad infinitum,  the galloping inflation or the complete ruination of the Naira which is now about the weakest currency on the continent, depresses me like President Muhammadu Buhari always giving bragging rights to those who, during the 2015 and 2019 presidential campaigns, saw nothing good in him, while some of us celebrated him to high heavens,  sure he would rid Nigeria of insecurity, fight corruption to a standstill and restore sanity to the economy before the end of his second, and final, term which is now a mere 10 months away.   Looking back now, we could not have been more wrong. As attested to by Dr Owokho in the above quote, President Buhari is not all to blame as the National Assembly, particularly the 9th, has been completely servile and so deserving of the guillotine, for sleeping on duty while the presidency had a full day, treating Nigeria like it  is made up of only the North, or for Fulanis. If only our legislators have been alive to their responsibilities, and aware that,  like the president they too are elected, and represent their people, Nigeria would not be where it is today. In their virtual absence, a very attentive hegemonic mafia crept in, and has since been busy actively liaising with every section of government they could leverage on to make government work mostly for only a part of the country. Apart from the presideni’s lopsided appointments over which we no longer need shed tears or  waste any valuable time, even though as a result of which you would hardly see President Buhari hold officials who fail in their responsibilities accountable. Other policies which the  Buhari administration attempted to foist on the country include, but are not limited to: RUGA, which would have  planted Fulani herdsmen settlements in every part of  the country, grazing routes, which were intended to link grazing colonies, a National Livestock Transformation Plan for which the government was prepared to seize lands (belonging to states) as it actually attempted to do in Benue state, and the ever recurring National Water Resources Bill which has recently, according to trending news, again been re-presented by the President after it was earlier rejected by the no- nonsense Saraki – led National Assembly. Incidentally, all these programmes were for the  benefit of Fulani herdsmen, Nigerian as well as foreign ones, as if that is all the government  lives for. Meanwhile, at the last count, Nigerian Universities have been shut down for over 140 days with nothing concrete being done to reverse the ugly situation, nor has the president  demonstrated any personal anxiety over something that is guaranteed to maximally, negatively impact the future of Nigeria, beginning with its teeming youths. Below is how a trending Whatsapp post announced the news that President Buhari has re – presented the National Water Resources Bill to the ever obsequious National Assembly which you can be sure will, most probably, lap it up with all enthusiasm, eager never to offend the president: “President Buhari has submitted an executive bill to the National Assembly for the Federal Government to take control of all waterways and their banks. It will be recalled that he first brought it during  his first term and that the National Assembly under the leadership of Saraki and Dogara flatly rejected it”. “Now with a rubber stamp National Assembly  President Buhari has again returned the bill, intending to grab the banks of all Nigerian rivers for his people”. “Of particular attention is the proposed annexation of all the lands adjoining the river banks. These are all ancestral lands belonging to families. Without a doubt, President Buhari would, as soon as the bill is passed, hand over permanent grazing rights to his kinsmen, the Fulanis, herdsmen, who will then commence an expansion/conquest of the hinterland”. “The bill is also  intended to  abrogate the Land Use Act which vests all lands in state governors. This will amount to bringing grazing colonies through the backdoor”. “Nigerians must rise up to resist this obnoxious bill aimed at enthroning and legalising anarchy.” No close watcher of events since  the summit of Fulanis from 16 west African countries in Abuja, early June,  would be surprised at this development. While the meeting might have been well intentioned, it has since coincided with increased incidences of kidnapping and mass killings, as we saw in the gruesome attacks in Owo, Ondo state, and in Shiroro where each accounted for about 40 people killed. There has also been an increase in the kidnapping of religiously linked persons, especially Roman Catholic priests, as if these criminals are acting out a script. It has just been reported, for instance, that gun men have  just killed the two sons of Pastor Daniel Umaru, of the Ekklesiyar Yan’uwa Njairi Nigeria (EYN) in Mubi LGA of Adamawa state, while he was shot and his 13-year-old daughter abducted.   President Buhari can have state police as lasting legacy     Is presidential election an Olympic event in which…     2023: The die is cast (1)   These criminals who claim to own Nigeria are obviously becoming edgy at the thought of President Buhari’s tenure coming to an end soon. This is because they know that with his exit, no Nigerian president, even if Fulani, would ever again have the audacity they presently have, as no matter how many hundreds attacked, they hardly ever get arrested to face the law of the land. Back to the re presented National Water Resources Bill and my task has been really made somewhat easy by the fact that this government is obviously hard of hearing. Otherwise, even if its minister of justice will not waste his precious time reading newspaper columnists,  a diligent one should, at the very least read, as well as  internalise, the views of a lawyer of Femi Falana’s standing, particularly, on a subject as controversial as the National Water Resources Bill. It is my pleasure, therefore,  to again, quote Falana SAN, at some length, as I did in my article of 22 August, 2021 titled: “The Story of Two Bills: What are these ministers of Northern extraction up to?’ I wrote, therein: “Last week, I had cause to peripherally mention this bill while discussing how reticent state governors have been in confronting the Buhari government in areas where even a blind man could see that the government had over reached itself. Happily that appears to be changing, with the 36 state governments jointly sueing  the federal government at the Supreme Court over an alleged illegal diversion of over N1.8 trillion in recovered loot. Below are highlights of theNational  Water  Resourcss Bill as recently presented by Femi Falana, SAN: “Section 13 of the Bill empowers the Minister of Water Resources to formulate national policy and water resources management strategy to guide the integrated planning, management, development, use and conservation of the nation’s water resources and provide guidance for formulation of hydrological area resources strategies under section 94 of this bill. “The Bill recognises the right of Nigerians to take water from a water source to which the public has free access for the use of his household or for watering domestic livestock and for the purposes of subsistence fishing or for navigation, to the extent that such use is not inconsistent with this Bill or any other existing law. Section 75 states that no corporate organisation or individual shall commence borehole drilling business in Nigeria unless such driller has been issued a Water Well Driller’s Licence by the commission. The Bill creates a commission to regulate, protect, conserve and control water resources identified in this Bill as water sources crossing state boundaries in accordance with section 2 as well as the first schedule of this act for equitable and sustainable social and economic development and to maintain environmental integrity. The Commission shall also regulate the allocation, supply and distribution of water resources for all uses, and to promote equitable, sustainable and efficient best practices and conduct. Section 37 provides that whatever the commission decides is binding and enforcement may be done by the federal high court “as if the decision is a judgment of such court provided that the commission has issued a certificate to the complainant for leave to proceed to the court for enforcement of the decision. Stiff penalties have been prescribed for contraventions of the provisions of the Bill by individuals and corporate bodies. The above was drawn up by a legal draftsman who was either ignorant of the following illegalities, or so cocksure of their success, he just wouldn’t be bothered: Contrary to the provisions of the proposed Bill the Federal government cannot authorise or licence persons who may want to sink boreholes outside the federal capital territory. In Attorney General of Lagos State v Attorney General of the Federation the Supreme Court held that the power over physical planning in any state of the federation is exclusively vested in the state government and that the National Assembly lacks the power to legislate on the physical planning outside the federal capital territory. In Attorney-General of Lagos State v Attorney-General of the Federation (2003) 4 WRN 124 the Supreme Court (per Uwaifo JSC held that “In the circumstances, I have to say that Professor Osinbajo is right, in my view, in his submission that urban and regional planning for the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja is within the exclusive legislative function of the National Assembly but only by virtue of section 299(a) conferring residual power on it and not the controversial section 20 of the constitution. Similarly, each State House of Assembly has the exclusive function to make planning laws and regulations for the State under its residual power. It must follow that the National Assembly cannot make a law in the form and to the detail and territorial extent of the present Nigerian Urban and Regional Planning Decree No.88 of 1992. To do so will be in clear breach of the principles of federalism and an incursion into the legislative jurisdiction of the States. But it can make planning laws for the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja only on the basis of its residual powers. Again, the National Assembly cannot enact any law, in contravention of the constitution, imposing any responsibility on a state and expect obedience to such a law. It is a noncontroversial political philosophy of federalism that the federal government does not exercise supervisory authority over the state governments.”     “In granting the reliefs sought by the plaintiff the Supreme Court held that urban and regional planning as well as physical development were residual matters within the exclusive legislative and executive competence of the state governments. It is therefore submitted that on the authority of the Supreme Court judgment the provision of the Bill seeking to confer power on the federal government to give approval or licence for digging boheholes in any part of the country is illegal and unconstitutional. It  is trite law that the Land Use Act is one of the laws  entrenched in the Constitution by the defunct military junta. To that extent, it enjoys statutory flavour and  cannot be altered via the National Water Resource Bill or  through any other bill. In other words, the bill is illegal in so far as it seeks to take over water resources on landed properties without amending  section 315 of the constitution in accordance with  section 9 thereof. In Nkwocha v Governor of Anambra State [1984] 1 SCNLR 634 at 652 the Supreme Court held that the Land Use Act is not an integral part of the constitution but claims the special protection of section 9(2) of the constitution in terms of its amendment. It was however made clear by the court that the land comprised in a state is vested in the governor of that state”. Need I say more after the legal guru has so comprehensively handled the matter? Yes, of course. In concluding many of my articles, I have always wished President Buhari well, especially out of office. I will not stop doing so. But in all honesty, now that the end of his tenure is being counted, no longer in years, but months, it is important that he relies less, and less on insular, and ethnically motivated advisers and public servants whose loyalty is shifty at best. This is because it is only his name that will be on the lips of history. It is, therefore, important that he now resolves to rule for Nigeria, and not for only a part of it. He still has more than enough time to make amends, and the place to start is to withdraw that Bill today. Again, I wish him well.