The National Population Commission (NPC) has announced plans to recruit 1m staff for the 2023 National Population Censusand Housing exercise The Federal Commissioner, NPC, Alhaji Almu Banye, announced this in Daura, Katsina State. He said applicants, who must be 18 years and above, must possesses their National Identity Numbers (NIN) and apply online He further denied social media reports the recruitment exercise has already commenced, saying the date will be announced to members of the public According to him: “Applicants are expected to apply from where they are residing and are ready to work in if employed ” ”Nigerians should ignore misleading online reports that we are already recruiting and that we are asking questions on religion and ethnicity, they are not needed for developmental basis” The Federal Commissioner, who was in Daura for the ongoing enumeration exercise for the planned trial census in Daura Local Government Area ‘LGA, said the exercise has recorded huge successes since its commencement on Tuesday night.   Telecoms’ incompetence fueling kidnapping in Nigeria…     How to watch BBNaija season 7 on GOTV, other platforms     Troops rescue 22 abducted Niger victims   Almu-Banye said he was in Daura to monitor the ongoing five-day exercise to see the success and challenges so that they can be resolved immediately. The Nation recalls out of the six Enumeration Areas (EAs) visited by the Federal Commissioner, only one was having a challenge. The Commissioner further assured staff with complaints the will pass them to the NPC headquarters for further actions. expressed satisfaction with the conduct of the exercise so far A Supervisor in one of the EAs, Great Achievers area, Mrs Tani Abdul Salam complained that she has been overloaded with about 500 buildings. According to her, due to the large number of people in some of the residential houses, she may not be able to cover everything within the five days. She appealed to the Commissioner to look into the possible deployment of additional officials so that they can cover the area within the stipulated five days. Another enumerator at Daura Veterinary area, Hajiya Hafsat Idris said the respondents have so far been cooperating with them.