As part of events marking its 50th manufacturing anniversary, Daily-Need Industries Limited has donated some medical equipment to two of Nigeria’s leading teaching hospitals: Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) and the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH). Some of the medical equipment donated included projectors, projector screens, laptops, prescription pads, nurses’ uniforms, doctors’ scrub, a variety of drugs and gift bags. The Executive Director, Daily-Need, Oluwasegun Jolayemi, speaking during donation ceremonies at the two institutions, said the donations were part of the company’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) meant to give back to society. He expressed the hope that, at intervals, the brand would provide more of such assistance to support medical institutions and facilities in the country. Jolayemi noted that the company had overcome many hurdles in its 50-year manufacturing journey as an indigenous brand while maintaining and delivering quality products to consumers.   AHMSG lauds Richen, seeks more collaborations     Why LASUTH is helping Nigeria address shortage of…     ‘We are here to make quality dental care available to all’   In his remarks, the Chief Medical Director (CMD), LASUTH, Prof Adetokunbo Fabamwo, appreciated the efforts of Daily-Need in reaching out to support the institution. He stressed the need for more of such donations from other organisations. “We are the last hope of the masses and that is why we would continue to need assistance from well-meaning organisations,” he added. While receiving the items on behalf of the CMD at LUTH, Consultant Psychiatrist and Deputy Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee, LUTH, Dr Yewande Oshodi, lauded the company’s intervention in ensuring quality healthcare delivery in the state. She noted that good healthcare delivery has to do with a lot of money and could become more attractive with the kind of support from organisations like Daily-Need. Oshodi, who represented the LUTH CMD, Prof. Chris Bode, called for more partnerships between the two organisations in order to keep tackling the enormous challenges prevailing in the health sector.