Meritocracy  drives my thoughts and ruminations today and even then ,  I concede that the concept is not fool proof and is contextual in various political systems and societies . The  news from Nigeria that the presidency has asked Nigerian  youths to learn  history  and get educated to earn a  living  outside  government ,  because government has no more jobs  for them ,  to me ,  is an attempt at meritocracy . Similarly  the Muslim Muslim ticket of the ruling APC presidential candidate  is  a  step  , and a bold one at that  ,  in the direction  of meritocracy  and   the  promotion   of  competence  in  leadership   in Nigera .Outside Nigeria and specifically  in the UK  where the leadership  succession battle to replace lame duck PM Boris Johnson is raging , the foreign un English  names  being peddled as front runners bravely show a salute  to merit and competence in the context of British  colonial past and the resultant  change in British political  leadership in a multicultural  Britain . The  evolutionary  and   historical changes leading to these  developments ,   form the kernel  of our discussions today . The  issue of  youths looking for  jobs  in government in Nigeria has a North South dichotomy and is rooted in the educational  imbalance in Nigeria  , in which  the South has an edge and in the  political   power structure   in which Northern  youths , educated or not , see  government work   and jobs as a monopoly  of  Northerners  especially  in the federal   government   establishments . This  is a product  of history  , demography  and  colonialism  and  we shall dilate on this later . In  contrast  the Muslim Muslim  ticket is a pragmatic , competence assessment that  moves against  history on the basis  of  merit  that shouts loudly  that  the nation should  not be held  hostage to religion   forever  .Especially  as Nigeria , after all said and done ,  is constitutionally ,  a secular state . It  is necessary  in this piece today  to compare the emergence of colonial products as leaders in the UK  especially  in the race to replace Boris Johnson    as    leader  of the  Tories  and eventual   UK  PM   , with   the  emerging political  meritocracy  inherent in the Muslim/ Muslim  ticket of the ruling party , the APC  in   the 2023   presidential   elections in  Nigeria. In   terms  of history  and  regional  development  in  Nigeria ,   the  South  has  always  been ahead  of the North  educationally . This  was an accepted fact  by  the  regional  leaders  of the nation even as they  fought  the British  colonialists  for  our   Independence   which   came  in 1960  .The  Northern  regional  leaders namely the Sardauna of  Sokoto  , Sir Ahmadu Bello and the   first PM of Nigeria Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa were school teachers and did their best to make Northern  youths get educated to bridge the huge educational  gap  between  the North and South . That was the origin of the belief that government work  at federal  level was meant for Northern  youths . That  educational  strategy  was not pursued by   the   military  and   elected    successors  of these pioneer Northern regional leaders and led to the neglect  of modern education in the North which  eventually   produced  the cruel  emergence  of Boko Haram  terrorism ,   which  said ‘ No to Western education ‘  . That  is the reality  that the North and the presidency  has woken up to and is now telling Northern  youths ,    which  it mistakes for Nigerian youths   generally ,  that government has  no more   jobs  for them   , a fact  which   non Northern  Nigerian  youths  have always  known  ,  because  they  have never been the beneficiaries   of government jobs at  federal  level  anytime  , till now . In the  old   Western Region the late  Chief Obafemi Awolowo  pursued  an educational policy of free education which  put  the region at the forefront of educational  development in Nigeria.  In  the East  ,  Zik and later Michael Okpara did the same and the North was left lagging even as it clung  to political power,,  based on demography and census  ,  not backed by climatology , geography  and the endless North South  Migration based on economic  and water needs for human survival  . This  too culminated in the huge  insecurity  bedeviling     the nation today  with the Fulani herdsmen  clashes with  farmers in the South  generally . In  the East the educational  drive  later  lost  momentum especially  after the civil war  when the Eastern youths embraced  business and jettisoned educational  achievements . While Eastern youths still excelled at educational achievements  somewhat ,  a new genre emerged of successful  , scarcely  educated   rich  youths   whose  pride  resided  in marrying educated graduates  as wives   since government jobs  was never an  option any way and at any time   for them .   Politics, geography and security     Laws, interpretations and morals     Culture, religion and wars   On  the Muslim Muslim ticket  which I address  henceforth  with its acronym MMt   it  is not necessary  to  vilify  , attack  or   defend   religion  to  justify  the presidential  choice of the Jagaban and APC .It  is a reality and a challenge that  both the nation and the party must  accept  and promote to win the 2023 presidential  elections . There  are  however  some obvious facts of geography and history  to highlight  based on the  background of the presidential  candidate  and his running mate especially as they come from the SW and NE . In   the SW especially  with the Yorubas religion is not a big deal  as most  families have both Muslims and Christians  as  members   and relatives  and they  jointly  attend and promote their religions and  their  activities  together at Xmas , Ramadan and Ileya . Religion  may be an opium  of the masses elsewhere but certainly not  in the SW of Nigeria . Napoleon  was quoted  saying that religion was invented by the rich to prevent being killed by the poor  but that is not the case in the SW or  even Nigeria till the advent of Boko Haram  in the NE where the Jagaban’s  running  mate  comes  from  and   I have  some interesting observations on the area . The  Kanuris dominate the NE of Nigeria and  they  are the only area in the North not conquered  by  the Sokoto Caliphate   jihad  . I did  my national  service in the NE and served at Gwoza  and  Mubi and  can attest that the people there are friendly and accommodating . There are ECWA Christians  in the area and they promote their  religion without harassment  till Boko  Haram  terrorism  came in .The APC presidential  candidate is a two  term  governor of Borno  State and is well placed to know the menace and perhaps the solution to the terror of Boko  Haram . He  certainly  must   have some ideas on   how  to realistically   and  politically  arrest  the menace of Boko  Haram at federal  level  and that would be a huge advantage for    a Tinubu presidency . This  is a matter of competence ,  merit  and  knowledge that should not be marred unnecessarily   with   extravagant  religious   considerations and  bias   given its huge  security  implications  for Nigeria now and in  the immediate  future .  To  me the MMt  is a political  innovation and change necessary  to move our political  system  forward   objectively and  should be applauded and promoted  patriotically  as a step in the right  direction  for our fledgling democracy . In  the  contest to choose Conservative  leader in the UK names like that of former chancellor Rishi Sunak and Chancellor Nadim Zahawi have surfaced and  no eyebrows  were raised because these leaders  are regarded first and foremost as Britons and  appreciated  as  products of migration , colonialism and a multicultural Britain . Perhaps Boris Johnson  was banking on such names being  unacceptable  in the British  establishment and that   may have prompted his careless and arrogant leadership that led to his fall  as PM  even  though  he will  be in power till a new leaders is elected .  The  leadership  race in the Conservative Party  in Britain shows full steam  meritocracy at work and I find that worthy  of emulation by any  political  system that aims at objectivity and  leadership  by  the best  hands available . In  a way  I think  that  is the direction of the MMt  ticket of the Jagaban in Nigeria for the 2023 presidential  elections  and  to me really ,   it is  a winning  ticket  worthy of support by  all Nigerians who value progress and good ,vintage leadership  , especially  in these  testy  times and  days .