Nestle Nigeria Plc has worked with local farmers who supply homegrown maize and soya beans used in the production of its nutritious family cereal, Golden Morn by fully sourcing its grains locally. Nestle Nigeria noted that sourcing grains locally not only sustain its local sourcing ambition, but it also impacts the local economy positively by providing a sustainable means of livelihood for the farmers and other players across the value chain. Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Manager , Nestle Nigeria Plc, Victoria Uwadoka, said raising the next generation of farmers and “agripreneurs” is critical, not just for ensuring the availability of grains for meeting GOLDEN MORN’s needs, but also for building thriving communities and sustained economic advancement. “Therefore, in October 2021, the brand launched GOLDEN MORN Agripreneurship Series in collaboration with The Enterprise Development Centre of the Pan Atlantic University to promote youth participation in the agricultural sector through training and provision of grants for the most promising agriculture business proposals by the beneficiaries. The beneficiaries are exposed to different aspects of the agricultural value chain and are provided with seedlings and mentorship to help them succeed as farmers post training. “As a force for good, our brands with purpose help to drive societal progress by Creating Shared Value across their value chain. This way, Nestlé is driving impact at scale across critical socio-economic sectors including agriculture to build a sustainable mutually beneficial ecosystem.” “The GOLDEN MORN Agripreneurship Series seeks to train and provide support to young entrepreneurs in the agricultural sector in order to promote sustainable food systems in Nigeria. Over the years, the brand has consistently supported the growth of a thriving ecosystem of farmers, and is now attracting and equipping young agripreneurs, who will ensure continuity from the current generation. Equipping these future farmers will ensure continuous supply of high-quality grains to Nestlé while contributing towards ensuring nutrition and food security to cater to our rapidly growing population estimated to reach 400 million by 2050,” Uwadoka said.   ‘Kerosene price rose by 12.09% in June’     Dockworkers shut terminals     9mobile unveils online streaming platform   Speaking at the opening session of the fourth season, Ifeanyichukwu Orabuche, Category & Marketing Manager Dairy, Nestlé Nigeria Plc said the company was excited to further extend investment towards creating value for young agripreneurs aged 18 to 35 years, who are already participating in or are interested in the grains value chain. “Through the series, we aim to positively impact on the local economy by growing agribusinesses to create job opportunities for young Nigerians. Beyond the training and mentoring opportunity, the series provides, beneficiaries who excel during the training also stand a chance to win seed funding for their businesses,” Orabuche said. The two-day virtual training which covers various aspects of the agriculture value chain including sales and marketing, is facilitated by credible and experienced professionals in the agriculture sector. Project & Finance Manager of the Enterprise Development Center, Pan Atlantic University,  Obianuju Okafor, said it was a delight that the partnership with GOLDEN MORN is now in its fourth season. “Through this partnership, we are building a community of young agripreneurs who can go on to foster innovative ideas and trends in the agricultural sector to build sustainable food systems now and in the future,” Okafor said. Since the commencement of the GOLDEN MORN Agripreneurship webinars, over 200 youths have benefitted from the opportunity provided by the brand with seven of them receiving a total of 3.5 Million Naira to scale their businesses.