Ttraditional ruler in Ekiti State, the Olojido of Ido-Faboro Ekiti, Oba Ayorinde Ilori-Faboro, has called on governments to create an enabling environment for youths in sports. He said sports is a big business through which youths can develop and be empowered to be self reliant. Oba Ilori-Faboro spoke in Ido Ekiti in Ido-Osi Local Government after a match between Unity FC and God Never Fails FC as part of the maiden edition of Prophet Sam Olu-Alo Foundation competition . The weeklong tournament was organised to discover talents for recruitment into Adamimogo Football Club, owned by prophet Olu-Alo. According to him, “involvement in sports will engage and empower youths if given the right environment to operate.   U.S ‘committed to STEM education’     Another Nigerian gets First Class in Maths at Oxford     Tinubu on Shettima: I’ve made hard, best choice   “People from Brazil, Argentina and other South American countries making waves in world football are not better than us. It is encouragement that these young footballers need, which Olu-Alo has offered now. “We need at least one stadium and sport centre, equipped with modern facilities in all 16 local governments, where youths can train and participate in sporting activities and games. This is what we want our government to do for us”. Oba Faboro, who noted that the prophet has been of assistance to the community, urged other sons and daughters to emulate his gesture by contributing  to the development of Ido Ekiti. “This football competition is another feather to his cap. He has done a lot for the town. He has been empowering the youth, the poor, the aged with his resources every year. He also built a modern library and donated it to the town.” He added: “I want to encourage others to help in lifting these young people and the town up. They should do same, it is not just football but every other activities”. Council Chairman Sola Ogunsina and a community leader,  Afolabi Olurotimi hailed  Prophet Olu-Alo, saying he has been giving hope to the hopeless.