Four times champions and title holders, Jos Malcomines and last year’s finalist, Kaduna are a leading all visiting teams to the highly anticipated 2022 Bauchi Polo Tournament billed to gallop with fanfare on Monday at the foremost Col. A.D Umar Polo Ground in the state’s  capital city. Earlier billed for the last weekend of July, the grandiose fiesta was shifted to allow visiting teams and ponies to acclimatize and the organizers to perfect preparations for the  fiesta that has over the decades been the biggest sporting cum tourism attraction to the state. Murtala Laushi -powered Jos Malcomines have successfully defended their Bauchi title thrice  and are bracing to extend their supremacy against arch rivals from Kaduna, Kano, Yola and home crowd favourites, Bauchi Dokaji in what promises to be one of the most competitive Bauchi battle royale  in years. Reputed as one of the biggest polo tournaments in the country, the prestigious festival is spread over a week of octane showpiece and top class entertainment, with four major prizes and a handful of subsidiary prizes up for grabs by the winners. Major titles at stake include the Governor’s Cup which is the event’s biggest reward. Other prizes are the Emir of Bauchi Cup, Emir of Katagum Cup and the low-goal Sarki Fulani Cup.   Laporta vows to re-sign Messi for Barcelona     Amusan’s humble beginnings retold     Saints’ teammates  hails Aribo’s qualities     Checks revealed glittering subsidiary prizes like the Tafawa Balewa Cup, played in the everlasting memory of Nigeria’s Prime Minister, the Beginners Cup and the Veterans Cup would be carted home by lucky winners during the glamorous festival in the home of the foremost Yankari Games Reserve. The events biggest prize, the highly revered Governor Cup and will take the center stage with highly fortified teams from Jos, Kaduna, and possibly Bauchi Dokaji are expected to jostle for the top prize. “It’s going to be a three weeks of thrilling polo experience for our esteem sponsors, partners and lovers of the noble game.”  Bauchi Polo Secretary, Haruna Ningi disclosed in an exclusive chat with The Nationsports ahead of the tournament. Bauchi Polo Captain, Ismaila Sam Pam gave a breakdown of teams participating in the international event with upstart players and female players joining the regular Natalie Allen in the campaign for honours. He also disclosed that established Nigerian polo patrons, top Nigerian professional players and their counterparts from Argentina and Europe are billed to display their awesome skills during the weeklong polo fiesta  that has annually attract the biggest crowd to the ancient Hausa Kingdom for decades still counting. Nestling off the popular Kano- Ningi Road in the State Capital, the serene Bauchi Polo Club was established in the late 1970s by polo enthusiasts and lovers of the noble game of kings led by Col Umar when he served at the Nigerian Army Armoured Corps (NAAC).