The story of Emeka Okoro’s venture into Nollywood is like that of Biblical Saul who went looking for his father’s donkey but ended up becoming King. Okoro set out for a different agenda entirely in life only to meet a friend who told him of an audition going on within the neighborhood. He ended up being selected as one of the lead characters and from that fateful day in 1995, he has been making waves playing tough guy roles and generally making his mark in the motion picture industry. For some time now, not much has been heard from the actor, writer and media personality, who revealed that he has found Christ. He spoke with SAM ANOKAM about what has been happening to him, his foray into music, and film among other topical issues. It’s been a while, some of us last watched you on screen, have you retired or you are doing something else? Nowadays, you know, it depends on the channel you are tuned to or watching. I mean with the proliferation of satellite TV providers and cable networks, one can hardly put one’s foot down on one movie channel one watches on consistent basis any more. So I’m still active in the movie industry. For those who subscribe to ROK/ IROKO movies they will see new movies I have done with them. I have also done other ones. I have also been a media practitioner from time while acting. What project are you working on currently? I have been working on my 8 – Track – Gospel Songs Album, The Encounter which has just been concluded and released on all music platforms- Spotify, Amazon, Apple, Pandora, Boomplay etc. There is also a new gospel movie project coming up soon from my stable. Have you produced your movie or intend to? I have produced and directed a gospel movie titled; Flee. Through the movie, we are trying to say that not everyone escapes the clutches of strange women, there are some battles you don’t stay put to fight because the only way to fight it and win is to flee. What informed you going into music and what do you hope to achieve with it? I have had the music talent in me but expressing it was the thing.  I had songs I composed and kept. The drive wasn’t really there then to express them but now that I am born again, I found the motivation and inspiration to hit the road with the talent. As a matter of fact, my encounter with Christ predicated my new status and now I’m having and loving this relationship with God. So through the gospel songs I am set to evangelise, praise and worship the One who saved me. How has the movie industry fared in your own view? I always liken our movie industry to a baby – growth – process. Growth process is inevitable. Some are delayed, some rapid. The movie industry growth process has been dynamic, fairly well, judging by it’s inception. Professionalism, good budget, competition and distinction have set in, gradually displacing mediocrity and incompetence. Do you have any plans to join politics? You know in life, sometimes you may not plan a venture but divine orchestration walks you into it like the case of Saul in the Bible. He only set out to look for his father’s donkey but ended up being anointed as king. I may walk into politics with time. What role can you not play? It depends. If it’s in line with my belief and I’m comfortable with it, I will play the role. Can you share any embarrassing moment? None American actor, Will Smith smacked Chris Tucker on stage for mentioning Will’s wife in a joke, what would you do in a similar situation?   Toyin Abraham, Okanlawon feature in The Stranger I Know     My relationship with Basketmouth, by Lisa Viola     Obi Emelonye’s Money Miss Road opens in cinemas across…   There are some things you overlook from the maturity point of view. I would overlook it.  Say, 10 years from now where do you see yourself? Everybody wants good things for themselves. If Jesus hasn’t come by then, I see myself, having crossed all the rubicons of life, not just at the success apogee of my jurisdiction but also becoming a great channel of blessing to humanity. Now that you have added music into your calling, do you intend to become a pastor in the nearest future? I have a divine calling which I’m already answering to. I’m not actually far from it. Why did you relocate to the east and how is the film industry doing there? I have never relocated to the East neither have I had the thought for once of relocating. As it is well known, the east is our major Nigerian movie production hub and of course, I’m from the east myself. So, I travel to the east for movie productions from time to time. You are a ladies man but you have managed to stay off scandal, what is the secret? Everyone has a past but it depends on how you manage it. That’s over now though. I’m conscious of the life I live now as born again. The fear of God precedes everything else. How do you cope with the opposite sex? Normal. I’m happily married- chasing after her and both of us are chasing after Jesus now. What are your prayers for the entertainment industry? I pray for better platforms, renovations, investors, reforms and incentives that will totally transform the industry, bringing our hearts’ desires to reality. What other of your talent do you hope to exhibit to the world? I love watching buildings under construction and I’m a property consultant. That will unfold with time. Tell us about your foray into Nollywood as well as your background and the journey so far? I came into Nollywood unprecedented. I studied Theatre Arts in Lagos State University ( LASU ) eventually because of my love and passion for acting. It was purely an act of God – just like like Saul set out to look for his father’s donkey and ended up being anointed as king, so did I set out for a different thing entirely only to meet a friend who told me of an audition going on within the neighborhood. I ended up being selected as one of the lead characters for the movie that day. That was the beginning point. From there I leveraged!