Nigeria and Galatasaray forward Henry Onyekuru considers himself a doting father, who would go to any length to shower attention on his children. Since tying the nuptial knot with his adorable wife, Esty, in 2019, they have been blessed with a second child, Esosa, whom his father loves to call, Raya. When their daughter celebrated her second birthday early this year, the Super Eagles winger was all over social media, celebrating his ‘the absolute love of my life.’ The same thing goes for him whenever his boy, Ryan, who turns four this year, is celebrating his birthday. He wrote on his Instagram page when Ryan clocked four: ‘One of my biggest blessings.’    In a recent interview he said he has a strong bond with his family, hence, he travels with them wherever his career takes him. “I can’t live without my family. We travel together and I love to see them near me. Wherever I go they go with me, said Onyekuru of his young family. The 25-year-old fast-paced player has done quite some moving around Europe since signing for Greece’s top club Olympiacos. He has berthed at France for Monaco and been on loan to Galatasaray of Turkey more than once. So, for four years, moving back and forth between France and Turkey, he has dragged his family along. He emphasised their importance in an interview, saying that they helped him to remain focused. “To me, my family is the most important thing because most times you don’t expect every game to be Nigeria and Galatasaray forward Henry Onyekuru considers himself a doting father, who would go to any length to shower attention on his children.   Godwin Kienka: Why Nigerian sports is ‘going round in…     Adesola Adeyemi: My experience on international runway has…     The end of the rules-based international order?   Since tying the nuptial knot with his adorable wife, Esty, in 2019, they have been blessed with a second child, Esosa, whom his father loves to call, Raya. When their daughter celebrated her second birthday early this year, the Super Eagles winger was all over social media, celebrating his ‘the absolute love of my life.’ The same thing goes for him whenever his boy, Ryan, who turns four this year, is celebrating his birthday. He wrote on his Instagram page when Ryan clocked four: ‘One of my biggest blessings.’    In a recent interview he said he has a strong bond with his family, hence, he travels with them wherever his career takes him. “I can’t live without my family. We travel together and I love to see them near me. Wherever I go they go with me, said Onyekuru of his young family. The 25-year-old fast-paced player has done quite some moving around Europe since signing for Greece’s top club Olympiacos. He has berthed at France for Monaco and been on loan to Galatasaray of Turkey more than once. So, for four years, moving back and forth between France and Turkey, he has dragged his family along. He emphasised their importance in an interview, saying that they helped him to remain focused. “To me, my family is the most important thing because most times you don’t expect every game to be Başakşehir and arch-rival Fenerbahçe whom they defeated 3-1 at home “I will not forget the goal I scored against Başakşehir throughout my career. I was very happy, you can see how I ran to the fans when you look at the photos. Everyone was very happy. They were shouting, cheering, and saying “CimBomBom”. It was an incredible feeling for me. Fernando Muslera came to my side after Sofiane Feghouli’s equal goal. He came and said to me, “Okay bro. Now it’s your time. Don’t worry and forget the uncounted goal; push until the end, luck will come to you. “I got a lot of confidence from him. I waited for that opportunity to come to me and when I got that chance, I scored. I was very happy. That day was very special for me. Because I had my first league championship in my career. I had teammates who were champions twice, three times at other clubs, but this was very special to me. I actually felt it even in the warm-up that day. I was ready to give all my concentration, my full capacity. We were playing at home. A team that supported us incredibly from the very beginning. We had fans. It was incredible. Thank God we made it.” “The celebration that night was phenomenal. All the fans were very happy, it was an incredible feeling. When my name was called and I started walking, I thought how rare that feeling was, that we were champions and that this feeling was very special. It was an incredible feeling. I don’t know how to explain it. Donk is like a big brother to me. He always gives me advice and makes jokes. But business time is very serious in the field. He always gives his hundred percent. We had not planned the dance on the day of the celebration. It was spontaneous. I think he was having fun too and thought.”