Enugu State Police command has arrested two members of the vigilante group, who were involved in the alleged killing of a 22-year-old man, Philip Okoro in Nkpologwu community in Uzo-Uwani local government area of the state. The victim was allegedly shot on Wednesday and was rushed to the hospital, where he was later confirmed dead on Thursday, 30/06/2022 at about 3pm, by doctors on duty. His corpse was deposited in the mortuary for preservation and autopsy. Okoro’s death sparked off protest with youths of the community going on rampage and setting ablaze about five houses belonging to the members of the vigilante group. The youths, who were bent on killing the vigilante members, had mobilized to attack the Nsukka police division where the operatives were taken into custody, but got the information that the men had already been taken to the command headquarters.   Row over Peter Obi’s campaign posters on Muslim prayer…     Why Reps may reject Water resources Bill again, by Kalu     Police deploy over 13,000 officers for AU/UN, ECOWAS…   In a statement issued in Enugu, the command’s spokesman, Daniel Ndukwe, disclosed that “two (2) members of the Vigilante Group directly linked to the shooting and murder of the victim have been arrested. They include: one Annene Idu (m), alleged to have shot the deceased, and Chijioke Ezugwu (m), the Chief Security Officer of the L.G.A. said to have led the Vigilantes to the scene of the incident to arrest hard drugs dealers. Additionally, the Pump Action used for the act has been recovered.” Ndukwe added that the commissioner of police, Enugu State Police Command, CP Abuabar Lawal, had ordered the Deputy Commissioner of Police in-charge of the State CID to conduct a full-scale investigation into the case of alleged shooting of one Philip Okoro (m) aged 22, by a Vigilante at Nkpologwu community in Uzo-Uwani LGA of the state. The police also disclosed that its operatives swiftly put out the fire in the house of the mentioned vigilante team leader before the building could be burnt down. The statement said that normalcy had since been restored in the area, while the CP had entreated residents of the community to remain law-abiding and avoid acts capable of breaching public peace in the area while supporting the Police in the ongoing investigation.