Mob justice! That seemed the figurative response former deputy senate president, Ike Ekweremadu and his wife Beatrice got as reports filtered on their alleged trafficking of a 15-year old boy to the United Kingdom for organ harvesting. Their arraignment at the Uxbridge Magistrate’s Court for the same alleged offences further incensed the mob of social media commentators and writers. They would stop at nothing to get instant justice for the alleged victim even as the circumstances of the case remained largely hazy. All manner of narratives took over the social media space with some writers even confusing the matter with the cankerworm of ritual killings that have of late, become rampant on these shores. Ekweremadu’s high standing in the government of a country that is unable to get its bearing right seemed to have whittled down whatever public sympathy he would have got. The imagery of a very prominent and rich man attempting to compromise the life of a poor man’s son to help his daughter survive did not help issues. It was an opportunity for the disadvantaged, the swelling army of the poor and even the envious to take vengeance on those in the corridors of power. Little wonder Ekweremadu became instant victim of transferred aggression as all manner of blames for the inability of the leadership of this country to develop our health facilities to world class standards were heaped on his shoulders. The common feeling was, had he used his several years in the National Assembly to ensure that our health institutions are developed to handle organ transplant, he may not have found himself in the current entanglement. That is an angle to it. Poor Ekweremadu in custody, battling metaphorical mob lynch at home even as his daughter is down with kidney failure and in dire need of transplant! This threw up the dilemma of what becomes of the ailing lady in the circumstance. But that did not seem to bother the army of critics bent on extracting a pound of flesh from him. It was indeed a very challenging period for the family as they faced unfavourable public opinion at home with no access to their ailing daughter. But the unfavourable public reaction to the incident was in the main, activated by the way the authorities in the UK presented the matter. The thought of a highly placed Nigerian public officer’s involvement in human trafficking involving an underage boy to the UK for organ harvesting was bound to ruffle sensibilities. So the reaction of the public was not entirely out of place. But the situation called for great caution as nothing had been heard either from the Ekweremadu’s or the alleged victim. The veil on the circumstance of the incident is gradually lifting. And it is getting increasingly clear there are obvious gaps in some of the facts of the matter as presented by the UK authorities.   ISWAP theory and Owo massacre     Dynamics of 2023 polls     Prelate Uche, the army and police   The first evidence came from the Nigerian Immigration Services, NIS, which after thorough investigations of the person at the centre of the controversy, David Ukpo Nwamini’s application forms for Nigerian international passport, confirmed he is actually 21 years old. That addresses the controversy over his age. With this, the charge of child trafficking has been punctured. There is also the issue of consent especially given the dimension the issue has taken. Initial reports had it that Nwamini is a homeless boy taken off the streets of Lagos by the accused and brought to the UK. That was the basis for the charge of “conspiracy to arrange or facilitate the travel of another person with a view to exploitation, namely organ harvesting”. But in an affidavit deposed to in a suit by the Ekweremadu’s at an Abuja High court, his elder brother, Bright gave details of events leading to the incident in the UK. He deposed that the applicant has a daughter, Sonia suffering from kidney failure for about five years that needed urgent transplant to save her life. Nwamini he said, offered to donate one of his kidneys if it is compatible with that of Sonia and that he had also informed them that he was 21 years old having been born in 2000. Bright said Ekweremadu supported the visa application of Nwamini to the UK with a letter to the British High Commission in Nigeria explaining the purpose of the visit which is to enable him undergo medical examination so that he and Sonia can get the best of medical attention. After the tests, the hospital decided that Ukpo was not a suitable donor as his kidney was not compatible with that of Sonia. He was asked to return to Nigeria but rather than do so, he approached the authorities in the UK for protection claiming he is 15 years old. The Ekweremadus are asking the court for an order directing the National Identity Management Commission and the Nigerian Immigration Services to respectively bring out the Certified True Copy of the biodata of David Ukpo Nwamini and the documents and application forms he presented to obtain his international passport. The documents are required for the purposes of criminal investigations and tendering same before Uxbridge Magistrate’s Court in the UK. Hopefully the applicants would secure these documents to aid them defend the charge that Nwamini is 21 years contrary to 15 years he gave the UK authorities. But they have a task proving that Nwamini’s consent was explicitly secured for the kidney donation notwithstanding the medical examination stated in the letter to the British High Commission as the reason for the travel. They may require further evidence to get through that irrespective of the new evidence showing that he is not underage. Overall, the picture is not as bad as it was initially painted. It is probable Nwamini lied to the authorities in the UK to evade his imminent return to Nigeria. He may have yearned to escape from the harsh conditions of life in this country after being exposed to prospects of a better future abroad. That may have been the crux of Ekweremadu’s current entanglement. Who to blame? Ekweremadu may have been a victim of Nwamini’s obduracy and indiscretion. It is hoped he can soon extricate himself from the current challenge to save his daughter struggling for survival.