Four of the last eight waiting to grab Boris Johnson’s job are racial minorities.  One of them is Kemi Badenoch of Nigerian descent Perhaps the most disruptive phenomenon in modern global history is the British Empire.  From the British Raj of India, Pakistan and allied Asian dominions (on which it was said the sun would never set), to the African colonies, to the so-called new world of the United States and Canada, and the Oceania wing of Australia and New Zealand, British colonization plagued almost every part of the world. But now, that global disruption is homing in on British home politics, with developments leading to the ouster of Boris Johnson, the embattled Prime Minister who just resigned in a froth of scandals.  It promises to be culturally disruptive to the British homers as British colonialism was to the British dominated races and peoples. Still, that in itself is not a bad thing.  Indeed, it would appear quite positive: for Britain appears shaping up well to its historic burden and responsibilities, much more than the United States, after White hate and bitterness that four years of Donald Trump unleashed on ‘Uncle Sam’.  Yet, the United States is the supposed liberal one, in comparison to a culturally conservative Britain. True, the United Kingdom remains a dominantly white country.  By its latest demographic spread, the White are 87 percent, Asian, six percent and Black, three percent, according to data from the British Office of National Statistics.  Indeed, these racial minorities are lumped together in that not-so-elegant acronym, BAME: Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic. Yet, from this BAME racial bloc has come four of the last eight eyeing Mr. Johnson’s job.  What’s more?  Presently leading the pack is Rishi Sunak, Boris Johnson’s former Chancellor of the Exchequer (Finance minister).  The other three are Suella Braverman (female, Attorney General for England and Wales, of Indian descent like Sunak), Kemi Badenoch, of Nigerian roots and Nadham Zahawi (an ethnic Iraqi-Arab and Chancellor of the Exchequer since July 5). But that was even after two other BAMEs: Home Secretary, Priti Patel, and former Health Secretary, Sajid Javid, both of Asian descent, pulled out from the race at the last minute.  Of even more significant ripples were the withdrawals of Rishi Sunak and Sajid Javid, highly regarded ministers who drove the ministerial resignations that doomed Boris Johnson’s position as Prime Minister.   Olu Jacobs @80     Osun poll     Eze’s pool tragedy   The other four traditional Brits in the race for the PM job are Liz Truss, Foreign Secretary and Penny Mordaunt, Defence Secretary (both female); and Tom Tungedhat, chair of Foreign Affairs Committee in the House of Commons and Jeremy Hunt, former Health and Foreign Secretary. This is not the first time well-heeled offspring of British immigrants would bid for party leadership under the Tories.  In 2019, when Mr. Johnson triumphed as party leader, one minority popped up in a field of 10, the remaining nine being Whites. Neither is Kemi Badenoch the first of Nigerian descent to bid for the leadership of a major British party.  That honour belonged to Chuka Harrison Ummunna, who vied for Labour Party leadership.  He made his bid on 12th May 2015 to replace Ed Miliband, who just resigned after a Labour election rout.  But three days later he withdrew his bid, instead backing Liz Kendall, who eventually lost the contest. Even then, Ms. Badenoch’s push generates more sensation because such minority moves are usually more associated with Labour, the ideologically progressive party that is more liberal on racial matters, rather than the conservative Tories. Indeed, in the 2019 elections, Labour fared much better among minorities, grabbing 64 percent of their votes as against Tories’ 20 percent and Liberal Democrats’ 12 percent.  Still, the current strong minority push for Tory leadership dates back to a deliberate project in 2005.  In a policy speech, David Cameron, then PM and Tory Leader, pledged to “change the face of the Conservative Party by changing the faces of the Conservative party.” That project led to Tory “poaching” of Badenoch and other racial minorities, so much so that when Boris Johnson quit (though he remains caretaker PM till September 5), his cabinet had become the most diverse ever in British history.  If Badenoch (among the last eight) or Sunak (the present leader of the pack) prevails, it would be an ode to the memories of Benjamin Disraeli, the distinguished ethnic Jew that became British PM (first in 1868; then from 1874-1880).  He was a Tory too. The Badenoch British story is rich in moral for her Nigerian homeland.  For starters, she is one of four women of diverse races chasing the British pinnacle of power.  Yet, no one seems bothered by her gender,  nor are they worried about her racial root.  The common sentiment appears to be that if these ladies are good enough for the British Parliament, they are certainly good enough for leadership — based on their rich minds and what they can offer, not on gender and racial considerations. That is a big lesson for Nigeria where citizens still split hairs on religious pseudo-explosives as a Muslim-Muslim/Christian-Christian presidential or gubernatorial ticket; or even the Hijab poisoning of the minds of minors and teens.  Shouldn’t citizenship come first?  And should that not trump other individual differences, without not being insensitive to these differences? Badenoch’s British story again underscores the imperative to make merit the pillar of the Nigerian fabric.  With merit and fairness, its handmaiden, it would be far easier not to glory and grovel in religious and ethnic bigotry, and sundry base distractions.  The British have been at theirs for some 700 years.  But it’s never too early for Nigeria to imbibe and mainstream such positive ethos.