Oluwajuwon Quadri is a popular Nollywood actress. She has distinguished herself as an actress living in the UK yet making waves in Nigeria. In this interview with ASSISTANT ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR GBENGA BADA, Quadri speaks on life and career in this exclusive interview. IN 2021, you released a double film Odikeji and Kute, what was the acceptance like considering you were away for some time before the release? Not really that was I away, but it can be a struggle to remain relevant, but good thing is that once you pave way for yourself and you get it right with your doing; your name will be imprinted in the hearts of those who truly love you and your work. And again God’s grace too is important, which I must add! Doesn’t shuttling between UK and Nigeria affect your role as a mum and actress? Sincerely, it does, but aside from parenting, what could be demanding? Acting career and as a mom and shuttling between two continents, Africa and Europe; United Kingdom, to be precise, but thank God for a great support system both in London and Nigeria. That’s why I work super hard every time I need to travel to Nigeria. For many of your films, you strive to pass a resounding message to live long with audiences, what’s the motivating inspiration for stories? Though movies should entertain, they should address issues in society as well. I don’t just want to entertain people. I also want to make a positive impact and that is the more reason you would see my movie, Kute is still excelling on streaming platforms with millions of views in just a few months of release. I always make my movie with a takeaway for every group of age and the Yoruba tribe. How many real-life stories have you turned to film? The movie titled ‘Okan mi’ was my story but other movies like Fikemi, Igboran, Adanwo nla, Orun, Odun marun, Etan, Ewawumi, Alaniyan, Tianshi, Odikeji, Eku Imura, Kute, Iboju, Jigiola were all true life story. You are a pretty woman in all ramifications, how often do you get attention from male fans and admirers and how do you wade them off?   Nollywood needs more funding, says Wale Muraina     Real Housewives Of Lagos: Laura vindicated, Chioma parts way…     Mr Macaroni, Broda Shaggi, MC Lively star in Survivor   Hmmm… do you love me too? Many ways, Thank you for the compliment! The advances come more often than I can count. I’m a respectable family woman and that’s enough to put out there to wade off such advances, and again I can’t hurt the feelings of my admirers and teeming fans. God has been helping me to manage the situation whenever it arises. What’s the most prized possession you have ever given yourself? Maybe my current car? Hmmm…. just recently, I decided to make myself happy, and mostly what matters to me. I had to do that one thing for myself, been a long time coming. Do you see your children taking after your acting career? No pressure, really but I’ll definitely make sure to support whatever career path they choose to tow. If, however, he (or any of them) shows interest in an acting career, I’ll be happy. A producer, or actress, are you looking at adding the role of a director to your CV? Maybe later in the future, but for now, I want to focus on acting and producing, Between acting and being behind the scenes as either director or producer, which is more tasking and which is more rewarding financially? They all have their challenges actually and both are financially rewarding as well. It depends on how well you know your onions. What’s the nastiest and untrue thing you have ever heard about yourself since you joined the industry? Hmmm….. like fake news or what? I have heard so many ridiculously funny tales…. maybe some affairs that never happened, or me having six children or marrying my colleague or dating/relationship affairs with star actor Femi Adebayo, I live a private lifestyle as an actress here in London and I don’t give myself trouble over mere speculations.