Adekunle Adebiyi, Executive Director, Growth & Partnerships at Itex Integrated Services, has impressed on African entrepreneurs the need to deploy innovative solutions in order to drive revenue and growth within the continent. Adebiyi, the immediate past Chief Sales and Distribution Officer for MTN Nigeria, gave this charge when he played host to notable business experts at the Africa Revenue Summit (AFRES) 2022. Addressing some of the participants on the sidelines at the summit, Adebiyi stressed the need for African entrepreneurs to embrace an innovative mindset in order to contribute to the economic development of the African continent.   Lekki Port to generate $562b revenue in 45years     Firm to empower kids with coding skills     ‘IFAD lifted over 120 million smallholder farmers worldwide…   The session, which was entitled “The Mindset that Wins,” steered conversations around the need for African-based organisations, including small and medium-sized enterprises, to develop a winning mindset to navigate through the challenges of the economies they operate in. This is because it plays a pivotal role in helping business enterprises effectively align their sales and marketing strategies with their overall organisational goal in order to upscale their revenue outcomes. Commenting on the essence of adopting the culture of possessing a winning mindset, Adebiyi noted that organisations that are regarded as being sustainable across the global business ecosystem are those that have embraced contemporary business strategies and technologies to upscale their business operations. This is made further evident when he said, “organisations, including SMEs that intend to operate sustainably must be willing to have a winning mindset. This is because it has a positive correlation with the bottom line of financial performance.” However, he further emphasised the need for business owners across the continent, particularly within Nigeria, to embrace the culture of collaboration. This is owing to the fact that collaborative efforts, particularly within the corporate ecosystem, have been proven to be a viable strategy that drives the revenue growth of companies regardless of the sector.