Four-time African Player of the Year Asisat Oshoala has been ruled out of the ongoing 2022 Women’s Africa Cup of Nations in Morocco. The Barcelona forward suffered a Grade 2 Medial Collateral Ligament strain in the eighth minute of their opening Group C game against South Africa on Monday. Oshoala received treatment and returned to the field of play until she was substituted in the 82nd minute by Francesca Ordega. The Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) confirmed on their official Twitter account that Oshoala was out of the tournament, though Super Falcons head coach Randy Waldrum declined to comment on her absence as the nine-time record African champions prepare to take on Botswana in their second tie at the tournament today. She is due to fly out of Morocco today after medics at her club, FC Barcelona Feminine, advised that she return to Spain. 2022 WAFCON:Amstel Malta Ultra urges Falcons to bounce against Botswana Amstel Malta Ultra, the official Malt drink of the Super Falcons, remains positive that Nigeria will return to winning ways today at the on-going Women’s Africa Cup of Nations in Morocco.   WAFCON 2022: Super Falcons beat Botswana 2 – 0     Manchester United insist absent Ronaldo is still not for…     Birmingham 2022: Aruna, Bello top table tennis’ list   After Monday’s loss to the Bayana Bayana of South Africa, the Super Falcons need an outright win today against Botswana to get their campaign back on track. Unlike the Super Falcons who lost 2-1 in their opening game, debutants Botswana recorded a 4-2 win over Burundi to go top in Group C. Yet Amstel Malta Ultra believed the Super Falcons would put up an improved display against Gaoletlhoo Nkutlwisang’s side today in Rabat. Reiterating Amstel Malta’s unflinching support for the Super Falcons, the Senior Brand Manager, Maire Abia-Bassey, noted that one of the hallmarks of true champions is the ability to come back stronger from initial setbacks. “No one expected the Super Falcons to have it all easy in Morocco but we remain confident in their ability to surmount every obstacle and make it all the way to achieve their dream for a 10th title” she stated. Incidentally, the Super Falcons also lost their opening game at the last edition of Women’s Africa Cup of Nations four years ago in Ghana before going all the way to win the title for a record-extending ninth time. Amstel Malta is one of the longest corporate sponsorships on the stable of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) and since coming on board, the Super Falcons’ supporter ship has indeed soared and is comparable to the global standard of the game.