No fewer than 104 inmates of the three custodial centres in Enugu State have been granted bail by the state Chief Judge, Justice Raymond Ozoemena. The CJ, who was on a jail delivery exercise weekend, also discharged and acquitted 32 inmates from jail. Ozoemena further released three juveniles brought to the Enugu Custodial Centre on Friday, July 22, 2022. The CJ said that the exercise was a sacred duty to ensure that “the rights of every citizen are not infringed upon”. According to him, the jail delivery, which have 17 courts sitting, have ensured that every inmate would be accorded the constitutionally guaranteed right of fair hearing. “This exercise has been carried out over the years by the Chief Judge and assisted by the Honourable Judges of the High Court in this sacred duty. “I wish to thank the correctional centre and other stakeholders for their painstaking efforts to ensure that today’s exercise is hitch free.   Buhari celebrates Amusan, Brume over World Athletics feats     FCT taskforce begins massive demolition of…     Property destroyed as fire razes two-storey in Onitsha   “Permit me to also thank His Excellency, Dr Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, for providing the financial support to enable us carry out this exercise,” he said. Speaking, Controller of Corrections in Enugu State, Mr Nicholas Obiako, said that the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS) under the leadership of Controller-General, Mr Haliru Nababa, was poised to provide opportunity for inmates to develop their capacities. “The service has provided educational programmes up to university level and functional workshops; these programmes can only be realised if the inmates are reintegrated through exercise like this where their cases are fast tracked,” Obiako said. He said that the jail delivery was an important tool for yard management as it was a ray of light which inmates look forward to gain their freedom, as a behavioural guide while in custody. “I am hopeful that this exercise under your lordship will lead to the release of deserving inmates which will help stabilise the custodial centres. “Inmates from Nsukka and Oji-River Custodial Centres are all here for the cases to be heard and reviewed,” he said. Deputy Controller of Corrections in-charge of Enugu Custodial Centre, Mr Sunday Usifo, thanked the chief judge for the successful exercise as well as the unprecedented number of inmates discharged and bailed. “We sincerely appreciate you and the judiciary under your jurisdiction for this noble achievement today because this has rekindled hope in our inmates. “It will further strengthen the adage that ‘the judiciary is the last hope of the common man’,” Usifo said.