The 2023 elections incite the Nigerian cult of infantilism. It accentuates disparate voter divides, our fear of growing up, and inclination to soak in the lagoon of misbehaviour. Public discourse segues to rant and rascality, en route to the polls – online and offline – thus validating Marc Cooper’s pungent portrayal of the television-marinated society, in which the boundaries between childhood and adulthood blur, and completely get erased, in the glitz of pseudo realities. The Nigerian political arena, extends beyond the political parties, to the platforms of public discourse and channels of communication, especially social media, where children and adults trade tantrums, and hurl juvenile rant and rage in protest against everything Nigerian. The political landscape has deteriorated on the watch of predatory oligarchs, no doubt. The latter displays, to date, willful incompetence and inexplicable disdain for the electorate. The citizenry, in time, developed deep-rooted loathing for their pretensions, coldheartedness, and abuse of authority. The next few months, however, offer the electorate yet another opportunity to stand on the bight of history and salvage or waste opportunities for change, again. For the umpteenth time, Nigeria fields contenders, some of whom may be out to excite the electorate’s frantic hopes simply to dash them. Like a changeling of fickle principles, passion and integrity are changeful in their wake. The electorate must make its way past the fraud and extortion of these seasoned politicians and younger aspirants, who are out to lure the psyche into committing political capital (that is, electoral votes) to unsound judgment and investments. But to achieve this, the Nigerian voter must learn to discern the likely messiah from false patriots and conmen.  It’s about time we exercised tact and meticulousness, in casting our vote at the forthcoming general elections. I ask that we be wary of everybody and everything. I ask that we watch out for certain questions which we will frequently hear and certain apologies that may resound as philosophical queries or rhetoric. They are in truth, psychological confessions and expositions of the treachery and chaos constituted by our preferred candidates and their apologists. If we pay good mind to their politics, we just might find that every touted good by some candidates, masks a damning evil, like the extent to which altruism erodes a man’s capacity to grasp the concept of rights, or the actual value of human life. And the extent to which his conscience and humaneness has being wiped out. I urge that we be wary of the extremely platitudinous and patronising candidate, who is desperate to serve as the means to the end of others; such a character will ultimately regard others as disposable means to achieve his ends, often at very expensive cost. The more neurotic and ‘conscientious’ he gets in his practice of altruism, the more colourful schemes he devises “for the love of the collective good,” “for the love of the common man,” or “posterity” and “leaders of tomorrow.” Every effort of such a candidate will be geared at reinforcing all manners of sentiments and sound bites – he would claim to seek the fulfillment of “the people’s needs” except the actual needs of the electorate, like you and me. Among other measures, shall we institutionalise the debate as a platform for scrutinising our candidates? I moot a discuss, where the crucial, dreaded questions get asked.   Through the chaos     2023: As cyber-Nigeria turns toxic spectacle     The ballot is sexier than bullets   Let us wield it as a looking glass by which we view and analyse the politics, antecedents, and soul of each candidate. Let us not be deceived by their politics of unblemished altruism. The advocates of such selflessness often promise automatic and wholly magical solutions to problems of poverty, security, sub-standard education, and healthcare to mention a few. They promise success and survival to everyone but what they offer, ultimately, are what Rand calls “life-boat” solutions – fleeting lifelines by which short-term benefits are derived. Such a philosophy of governance conflicts with our social realities. It’s akin to applying menthol on a bullet wound. Let us not be deceived by the promises of restructuring, modern and affordable housing, true federalism, fiscal prudence, quality education, and so on regurgitated by our preferred candidates. Let us begin to ask, in Rand-speak, how they would pay for these things and at what cost to you and me. Let us make each candidate define his philosophy of social reform, welfare governance, and the psychology of his noble experiments in the interest of our most basic necessities and his antecedents in public or private office. The appalling recklessness by which some candidates propose, justify and project “government with a human face” may be discernible, measured, and disclaimed through the looking-glass of their antecedents in public office, well-organised political debates, interviews, pseudo-events, and frank talk. Who knows? We may discover, in the nick of time, that the hallmark of our preferred candidate’s humanitarian disposition is the advocacy of some limitless, grand-scale public goal or initiative without regard to context, cost, or the means of achieving it. For such a goal or initiative to be desirable to all, it has to be made public and glamorised because the costs are not to be earned but to be expropriated, and a dense patch of venomous fog has to enshroud such vital issues as the means of achieving it. This is because the means could be human lives. Human lives like yours and mine: battered, bruised, browbeaten, easy to fleece. Healthcare appropriately illustrates a modicum of the random aspirant’s lifeboat ventures. “Isn’t it desirable that the government subsidises treatment of compatriots living with HIV/AIDS?” clamours an average citizen. The preferable answer would be “Yes, it is desirable.” It is at this point that both the mental and moral processes of a collectivised brain are wholly cut off. The rest is fog. Only the desire remains in sight of our “altruistic” candidate. “It’s for the greater good. It’s hardly in my interest but in the interest of others. It’s for the public, a helpless, ailing public,” rants the familiar candidate. Consequently, the fog hides such facts as the embezzlement of public funds, unbridled looting of the public till, compromise and sacrifice of medical science, professional integrity, and the careers and happiness of those who are to administer such care, the nurses and medical doctors; and those who are to enjoy it, the patients. The examples of such projects are innumerable as daily, our favoured candidates, whip up more slogans to bait and confuse us. Therefore, be wary of the candidate promising to clean up our slums while avoiding questions about what happens to the victims of such cleansing and those in the next income bracket. Be wary of the candidate who seeks to “educate the shanty kid” while avoiding crucial issues such as the quality and welfare of staff to anchor such educational projects. What will be taught, and what back-up measures are to be adopted in the event that the initiative fails? Be wary of the candidate who seeks that Nigeria too gets to do the moonwalk and conquer space even as he avoids the crucial issues of government and private sector neglect, Nigeria’s white elephant space technology, and discrimination against the nation’s polytechnics and technical training schools. Be conscious of their unreality – their blind, savage, ghastly fantasies that inspire them to prevaricate and if possible, avoid the usually unanswered and unanswerable question to all their “popular” and “altruistic” goals: “Who really gets to enjoy the benefits?”