Abia State Government has sacked Abia State Polytechnic management led by Elder John Nwangborogwu. Other members of the polytechnic council include Dr. Kalu Osonwa (rector), Oriaku Chinyere (registrar), Omenihu Friday (bursar), Ndulaka Chigozie (librarian) and Nwogu Jude (director of works services). The dissolution of the management occurred about 24 hrs after the leadership of the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) announced the de-accreditation of courses offered in the institution over unpaid 30-month workers’ salary. NBTE promised to ensure that the school did not mobilise students for the mandatory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) for the next batch stream. A statement by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr. Chris Ezem, said NBTE’s decision was embarrassing and capable of destabilising peace and harmony in the state. He appealed for calm among members of the polytechnic community. Members of the task force set up by the state government to ensure the restoration of the accreditation within 30 days include Prof. Ikechi Mgboji -chairman, Dr. John Nwadioha – member, Jude Udeachara -member, Rev.Fr. Kelechi Anyanwu -member, Mrs. Love Ezema, -member and Mr. Stanley Nwankpa – member.   Fresh trouble for Tambuwal, Bala, others as court axes Umahi     2023: Buhari hails APC leaders over choice of candidates     Abubakar Aliyu and the never-ending power grid collapse   The government said it has remitted N7.1billion to the polytechnic since the inception of the current administration in 2015. Information and Strategy Commissioner Dr. Eze Chikamnayo made this known while briefing reporters on the outcome of the Executive Council (Exco) meeting held at the Government House in Umuahia. He said the Governor Okezie Ikpeazu administration had remitted about N92 million monthly in the past 78 months, adding that the problem of the institution was poor management. The commissioner said the polytechnic was an autonomous body set up by law, as the government did not recruit for them, nor had the institution ever paid any kobo into the government’s coffers. He said the board and management of the polytechnic were expected to uphold best practices, but noted that instead, there had been abuse of best practices in the institution. He said the government is engaging stakeholders to ensure that in the next one month, the polytechnic gets back its accreditation in all courses, as a high powered committee has been set up in that regard. Chikamnayo said the government was leaving no stone unturned to sanitise the polytechnic and other parastatals and urged managers of parastatals and other semi autonomous boards to buckle up. He said the government would not hesitate to punish any erring board and advised NBTE not to take up the job of trade unions, as issues of welfare were within the purview of union leaders.