No fewer than 38 shops, filled with good of various categories, were razed by an early morning inferno at Bodija market in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital yesterday. The incident happened at the Idi Igi lane where grinders are located in the market. The incident was described as mysterious by some traders. The inferno, according to eyewitness account, started around 4.30am with smoke filling the Ori-ile end of the market. The incident, according to reports, caused pandemonium in the market, as other traders who heard the news raced to the markets to prevent criminals from  looting their shops It was gathered that the goods in the affected shops were completely razed before officers and men of the Oyo State fire service could render any help. Some of the traders commended the fire fighters for their timely response, stressing that, their efforts prevented the inferno from spreading to other parts of the market. Victims of the incident lamented their losses and called for support from the state government and other well meaning Nigerians.   2023: North West APC backs Tinubu-Shettima’s ticket     Banditry: Extend security forces’ retirement age,…     BREAKING: Lagos PDP Gov candidate unveils Funke Akindele as…   As of the time of this report, fire fighters have left the scene while some scavengers were seen around the affected shops. When contacted, the Director of Operations, Oyo State Fire Service Agency, Engr Ismail Adeleke said the agency got an alert at about 5:30AM and had to swing into action. He added that, the quick alert and timely response prevented the fire from spreading to other shops on the lane. He however said the source of the fire could not be ascertained during preliminary investigation but confirmed that many goods, equipment and materials were ravaged but the inferno. Adeleke said ”They call the place Idi-igi lane, Bodija market, Ibadan where there are lots of grinding machines, they grind pepper, yam flour and other things there too. “The fire service received the distress call at about 5:35AM from one Mr Akeredolu Ayo, from Yemetu Police Station, the officer alerted us of the fire incident in Bodija market. “Immediately, we deployed our personnel to the scene and on getting there, many shops were locked and fire had spread. We had to call for back up to help us tackle the The shops razed were about 37 out of the multiple shops there. We are yet to establish the immediate cause of the fire because investigation is still ongoing. We want to conclude our investigation before going public on the incident.