The Plateau State Governorship Candidate of the All Progressive Congress APC  Dr. Nentawe Yilwatda has said he is still consulting with critical stakeholders to produce his running mate. According to him, although he has a deadline of submitting the name of his running mate to INEC, it is a matter of choice to pick his running mate after consultations. Yilwatda who stated this while speaking with reporters in Jos on Monday pointed out that he has embarked on wide consultation and the whole fragment of the society, the traditional and religious leaders, party structures, as well as engaging all stakeholders to ensure that the person he picks will have a resemblance of acceptance from them. “As such, that is what I am presently doing now. Since I have time, why do I need to rush in picking my running mate, the deadline for submission is July 15th.” Speaking on insecurity in the state the governorship hopeful said if elected, his main focus will be centred on securing lives and properties of the citizens.   Niger orders suspension of mining activities in three…     Catholic Church denies abandoning victims of Owo terror…     Expectations high to see you deliver, Osinbajo tells new…   He said “I shall consider security as a cardinal point. Security is fundamental because we need to protect our children. “This will be captured through the effective use of drones and community vigilante by recruiting retired police and army personnel as well as hunters group to tackle any security problems in the rural communities.” According to him, the lack of proper security management are some of the setbacks which brought about many crises that erupted in the state. According to him, the major problems that is fueling the crises are mostly land related conflicts and religion stressing that if he comes on board, he will apply a kinetic and non-kinetic approach in dealing with the aged long security problems. Yilwatda further explained that apart from involving traditional rulers in resolving such conflicts, he will also deploy technology to tackle them through the installation of CCTV cameras as well as established a Security Trust fund that will be managed by an independent body for accountability. He vowed to revamp critical sectors of the state if elected. He also called on the people of the state to support his aspiration, APC and ensure he gets elected.