Edo State is in the news for the wrong reasons once again. The state is one in which jail break is so frequent; one known for political rascality and one where kidnap is so rampant and Catholic priests have become endangered. This time, it’s with regard to neglect of primary and secondary school pupils. In contemporary times, it is preposterous that pupils would be made to receive instructions and write on the floor. But that is the situation in the popular Okada Junction in Edo State where parents and residents have cried out about the state of the school in the community. The classrooms whose photographs were freely shared in the media last week are decrepit- ceilings broken, windows non-existent and doors not available. When it rains, both pupils and teachers have to relocate to where they could hide to avoid the fury of water. The community contends that it had cried out to the state government for years to come to their aid, all to no avail. It is unfortunate that the only answer the State Universal Basic Education (SUBEB) has is that the government is waiting for such a time when it would be able to address concerns of all the schools at once. Before then, what happens to the health and quality of education received by pupils in such schools? It is unfortunate that those in charge of governance in the state are people who had access to good quality education in a good environment. Yet, Edo State is regarded as one of the leading states in terms of education. The National Bureau of Statistics rates it as having the least number of children out of school.   Stroke capital     Managing migration     Kebbi power   This is a reputation we expect the state, not only to maintain, but improve on. Early this year, the state government announced that it would start a new system of education for the primary and secondary schools in the state. In place of the 6-3-3-4 system presumably in operation nation-wide, the new policy would have Basic-Junior Basic and Senior Basic mode. While it is expected to take off in the 2022/2023 session, the stakeholders are yet to fully understand how it will operate and what it requires of proprietors of private schools. It is likely to lead to some disruption and discomfort for the students, too, who are expected to adjust to the sudden change. The current National Policy on Education enunciated in 2013 and adjusted in 2018 is still being studied by many schools. Many state governments, including Edo, are yet to ensure that conducive environment is created for teaching and learning. Audio-visuals are not provided, recreational facilities are absent and workshops as well as laboratories are strange to the students. These are meant to be the central concerns of the Edo State government. Parents and pupils have indicated that there are many schools in the state where pupils are made to sit and learn on the floor. Good environment is a key indicator of quality education in the 21st century. The classrooms are expected to be decongested, teachers continually undergoing training and retraining to be equipped for imparting education, the curriculum constantly reviewed by experts to conform to national goals and there is a need for a reinvigorated inspectorate unit of the education ministry. We expect Edo State to take the lead in this so that educationally disadvantaged states could take a cue. Rather than pay attention to the plight of the people, Governor Godwin Obaseki and other political leaders of the state are more interested in squabbles to establish who has control of the turf. Any society, state or central government that fails to locate the children and youth at the centre of its development plan is doomed to fail. One sure way of ensuring that Nigeria escapes from the poverty and squalor bind is to pay special attention to elementary and secondary education.