Accidents happen, but there are avertable accidents. Sadly, at least 17 people died in a preventable boat accident in Lagos on July 8. That was the figure of fatalities after search and rescue operations had ended. The tragedy occurred on the Mile2-Ibeshe route. The Lagos area manager of the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), Sarat Braimah, said the tide had carried the vessel to a stationary barge, causing it to overturn. Responses from the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and the Lagos State government show that the accident was avoidable. NEMA zone coordinator, Southwest, Ibrahim Farinloye, in a statement, attributed it to illegal boat operation after stipulated hours. He said: “The regulatory bodies have tried to stamp out illegal operations of small boat operators who hardly use life jackets after official hours.” Also, he observed that “wooden boats are not permitted to be used as passenger boats. But it is only at this odd hour that illegal operators always put the lives of unsuspecting passengers at risk.” Commissioner for Information and Strategy Gbenga Omotoso made similar observations in a release, saying the boat involved in the accident was unlicensed and broke the waterways rules against night travel and overloading. “Besides, not all of the passengers wore life jackets and the boat did not take off from a government-approved jetty,” he added. It is commendable that Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu ordered an investigation of the boat accident. There are important questions that need to be answered. Is it true that the boat was unlicensed? Did it operate outside stipulated hours? Was it overloaded? Did it lack adequate safety equipment?  Did it operate from an unapproved jetty? Clearly, these questions have a lot to do with possible violation of regulations, and suggest weak regulatory enforcement. It is disturbing that two days before the incident on Mile2-Ibeshe route, another boat accident had happened on the Ikorodu-Lagos Island route in the state, in which two people were killed. There were 15 survivors. The General Manager, Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA), Oluwadamilola Emmanuel, said the boat “suddenly developed mechanical fault and submerged on the waterways barely 200 metres away from its take-off point.”   Kemi Nelson’s death shocking, says Adebule     On Nelson Mandela’s International Day     ASUU strike: who to blame   But according to one of the survivors in this case, “the captain’s attitude left the passengers wondering if he was trained.” Another was reported saying the attitude of some boat operators made him wonder if their services were actually regulated by the state government. “The loss of lives was caused by human error,” he was quoted saying. The government is investigating why the boat capsized. From the look of things, the question of proper regulatory enforcement is the heart of the matter. It is impossible to have a safe water transportation system without firm regulation, including inspection and monitoring. It is noteworthy that water transportation is an integral component of the state’s evolving intermodal transport system. More than 20 per cent of the state is made up of water bodies, which makes it suitable for water transport. Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture Uzamat Akinbile-Yussuf, in October 2021, noted that as a result of the state government’s efforts to develop water transportation, in less than two years, “the water index patronage” in the state had improved to 3.2 per cent from 0.8 per cent. Given the growing importance of water transportation in the megacity, the state government needs to ensure strict compliance with operational standards for safety purposes. Stakeholders, in particular LASWA and the Association of Boat/Ferry Operators of Nigeria, should urgently address the operational issues that pose a threat to water transport users in the state. The probe of the incident on Mile2-Ibeshe route should be thoroughgoing. Omotoso said: “Anybody who is found to have contributed in any way to this tragedy will surely face the law to ensure that we do not have any such incidents in future.”  This is reassuring. Regulators and operators should not only be conscious of their responsibilities but also act responsibly.