No few than three houses have reportedly been set ablaze by rampaging youths in Nkpologwu community in Uzo-Uwani local government area of Enugu State. The violent demonstrations across the Community followed the alleged killing of a 22-year-old boy in Ama-Idi village by the local vigilante for allegedly selling methamphetamine popularly known as Mkpurumiri. The vigilante were said to have stormed the residence of the deceased (names not confirmed) on Wednesday night for arrest. It was gathered that the deceased resisted and made attempt to run away, a development that led to the shooting. Village sources said one of vigilante operatives shot the deceased on the waist. He reportedly died the following day, Thursday. It was learned that the news of the boy’s death angered the youths, who went on rampage, burning down houses belonging to the members of the vigilante.   Row over Peter Obi’s campaign posters on Muslim prayer…     Why Reps may reject Water resources Bill again, by Kalu     Police deploy over 13,000 officers for AU/UN, ECOWAS…   As of the time of filing this report, three houses were confirmed burnt by villagers while some others were touched. One of the villagers said, “We’re currently living in fear because we don’t know what will happen next and we’re helpless. “Immediately the news of the death hit the village, youths mobilized and went on rampage. As I speak with you now, the house of the Chief Security Officer, CSO of our local government, Barr. Chijioke Ezugwu has been completely burnt down. “Two other houses in Ama-Idi village were also burnt. I can’t tell you the extent of destruction in some other parts of Nkpologwu because nobody is moving out for now. “The house of another businessman, Anthony Ani was touched and this arson is spreading by the day. We call on the relevant authorities to rise up and save our agrarian community before the situation goes out of hand completely.” Spokesman of the Enugu State Police command, Daniel Ndukwe did not answer calls and was yet to respond to messages sent to him as of the time of filing this report.