A former Kaduna State governor and chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Mohammed Ahmed Makarfi, has criticised ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo for saying he made a “great mistake” by picking Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as his Vice President in the 1999 presidential election. Makarfi said it is too late for PDP members to desert Atiku, adding that what is required of the party is to support its presidential candidate to emerge victorious in 2023. The former governor also blamed the Chairman of PDP’s Board of Trustee (BoT), Senator Walid Jibrin, for joining issues with Obasanjo over the Atiku controversy. He said such comments were unnecessary and diversionary. Jibrin had, penultimate Tuesday, threatened to expose Obasanjo over his comments on Atiku. Makarfi expressed optimism that the party would win the 2023 general election.   Prioritising people     Was it a warning shot?     Dissociative identity disorder   The former governor urged PDP leaders and other stakeholders to resolve all their differences. “What Obasanjo and Jibrin said were unnecessary and they shouldn’t have spoken in that form. All we need now is how to move our party forward for the task of forming government in 2023,” he said. Makarfi, who addressed reporters yesterday in Kaduna, debunked rumours of his defection to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The former governor assured the PDP that he would leave the party only when he retires from partisan politics. He called for concerted efforts to resolve all the issues associated with the outcome of the presidential primaries and the choice of Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa as Atiku’s running mate. Makarfi advised Atiku to liaise with Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike to clear any misunderstanding between them over the outcome of the party’s presidential primary election. “I won’t blame Wike for feeling bad. This is because he has been one of the pillars of the party. Let Atiku sit down with Wike to discuss issued because he is the only one that knows why he picked his running mate. The matter is resolvable,” he said.