When former Chelsea star, John Obi Mikel showed up at the Evans Square, Ebute Metta in Lagos to play football with locals on their sandy pitch, many erroneously suggested it was another publicity stunt common with  former Nigeria internationals. But media-shy  Mikel even during his active days,  had  genuine intentions as he was determined to help raise new superstars not just in football but also in basketball and tennis through his novel talent hunt. And when Mikel rounded up the talent hunt program with an impressionable  appearance last week at Ojo Street in the heart of the densely-populated Obalende area of Lagos, it climaxed his  loaded three-week schedule.  He was greeted with wide jubilations as the fans jostled to catch a glimpse of one of Africa’s most-accomplished football stars. The Back2Base project  initiator further extended  his goodwill to the Para-soccer players who were wowed by the kind gesture of monetary and wheelchair donations from the Chelsea legend. “I am aware there are a lot of talents out there but if we don’t come to their aid and provide them platforms to exhibit what they’ve got; they may not be able to actualise their potential.” Mikel noted as he reckoned his journey as a little boy on the streets of Jos before  becoming an iconic superstar. After several months of research and combing the streets of Lagos, Mikel and his amiable team led by the CEO and Founder of Avianna & Harvey Entertainments, Ahmed Fadekemi announced the modalities for the first edition of the Back2Base talent hunt project. From the onset, the intention was crystal different from the tons of the other talent hunt projects that would ‘rob Peter to pay Paul’ by demanding money  from enthusiastic youngsters while they used  a fraction of what is gathered for the set-out purpose.   Calabar Port roars back to life after three years of…     Drogba: Osimhen can be ‘best striker in the…     Tanzania side, Azam unveil Plateau United’s Ndala    The UNILAG Sports complex ideally was chosen for the three-day talent-hunt p and as one who had rightly predicted, the turnout was massive with many coming from far and wide wanting to be a part of the fanfare. Unfortunately, the rigorous process of selecting those to feature in the three-day programme had long been concluded and there was very little that could have been done to accommodate the ‘gate crashers’ With seasoned coaches, Judges along with Mikel himself on the ground all through the three-day exercise, outstanding athletes across the three sports were selected for what can be best described as life-changing opportunities. Even for those that ended up not being selected as the top guns, their joy knew no bounds with the inspirational presence of Mikel who took part in the action with the kids and was all over them for photo ops and all forms of support. “I have only seen him (Mikel) on the television before but now I have seen him in real life, took pictures with him and he even personally spoke with me after I lost my game” one of the elated participants declared. It was equally heart-warming to see the Minister for Youth and Sports Sunday Dare also coming over to identify with Mikel and the children, as he rightly acknowledged the huge investment Mikel would have made to put up a project of this magnitude while assuring  him of positive results very soon.