The National Women Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr Betta Edu yesterday reiterated its stance to mobilise women across the country to support the presidential candidate of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to win the 2023 election. Edu noted that the women were putting in place a formidable structure across the six geo-political zones in the country to mobilize support for Tinubu. Tinubu received the women from the 36 states including the Federal Capital Territory at his Abuja home shortly after the unveiling of his Vice Presidential candidate, Sen Kashim Shettima. Edu stated that women were being massively mobilised to ensure the success of the APC in the forthcoming 2023 presidential election. She noted the structure in geo-political zones had been set up to take the message from door to door until everyone is reached and convinced to vote for a candidate who has an unbeatable track record of performance and women mainstreaming.   Economy quakes under biting inflation     Business, consumers groan as inflation wreaks havoc     How CBN is fighting inflation   She restated the readiness and commitment of women to the emergence of Tinubu as the president of the country. Edu also assured the presidential flagbearer of mobilising women to deliver more than 40 million votes for the APC in the 2023 presidential election. In his response, Tinubu appreciated APC women for the visit and extolled the virtues and leadership qualities of the national woman leader Edu, especially her dedication and commitment to the success of the party. He expressed joy at the love and commitment of the women to deliver the elections, noting that success is assured with the full backing he is receiving from the women across the nation. In attendance were the Deputy National Women Leader, Hajia Zainab Ibrahim; the Minister of State for FCT, Dr. Ramatu Tijani Aliyu, Members of National Assembly, Senator Grace Bent; Khadijat Abubakar; Akande Sadipe; Hon Vilita Asabe; D-G Women Development Center, Iman Ibrahim Suleman; D-G Refugee commission, Ginika Tor; Princess Akobundu; D-G NEPAD, former deputy governors, House of Rep members, zonal women leaders and state women leaders from the 36 states of the federation, progressive young women groups, as well as key women stakeholders in the party.