Police in Anambra State have ordered investigation into allegation of extortion of N600,500 by some operatives of the Command at Onitsha Central Police Station. The command’s spokesperson, Tochukwu Ikenga, who disclosed this in a statement on Saturday, reiterated that the Command would not tolerate any form of unprofessional conduct by police personnel. A human rights activist and Coordinator of Behind Bars Human Rights Foundation, Harrison Gwamnishu had narrated an incident of arrest and extortion involving operatives of the command in the area. He said a man identified as Chidiebere was on July 4, arrested after leaving a shopping mall where he had gone to make purchases. He said the victim was seen by some police officers, including one Harrison Emerenini with an iPhone who later extorted from him the sum of N600,500 after dragging him into the cell and stripped him off his clothes. According to him, the victim succumbed to pressure after he was threatened with an Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) member tag.   Sallah: Remain steadfast in prayers for peace – Gombe…     Eid-El-Kabir: Only peace, oneness can ensure stability of…     Eid-el-Kabir: APC chieftain urges Nigerians to reflect on…   Gwamnishu however disclosed that the victim was later paid back in full the extorted sum following his group’s intervention. But Echeng, in the statement, vowed to uncover and punish operatives involved in such ignominious act. The statement reads: “The attention of Anambra State Police Command has been drawn to a trending report from social media on extorted but recovered money from a policeman in the Command. “The Commissioner of Police, CP Echeng Echeng has directed the Assistant Commissioner of Police in charge of X-Squad to investigate and unravel the circumstances surrounding the incident. “The CP who frowned at such act, reiterated that the command under his watch will not tolerate any forms of unprofessional conduct by police personnel. “He also urged citizens to report any Police alterations/Conducts to X Squad and Public Complaints Bureau PCB of the Command.”