Big Brother Naija will return for its seventh season on today with a double launch show. The double launch show will be on Saturday, July 23 and Sunday, July 24, 2022. The show will also retain its voting style from last year. Voting will only be on the Big Brother Naija website, mobile site and the MyDStv and MyGOtv apps for active customers. The double launch shows, according to the organisers, will air from 7 pm on Africa Magic Showcase, Africa Magic Urban and Africa Magic Family channels and the 24-hour show on DStv channel 198 and GOtv channel 29. Ebuka Obi-Uchendu returns as the host for this season, making it his sixth consecutive year of hosting the reality TV show. Some fans and viewers of the reality show have expressed their inability to view the show on GOTV.   Here is how to watch BBNaija live on GOTV and other platforms:     *Watch Big Brother Naija 2021 (Season 7) on GOTV Subscribers of GOTV can watch Big Brother Naija on channel 29 which is available to GOtv Max and Jolli packages. Big Brother Naija season 7 is broadcasting live on GOTV on channel 29 with the live eviction shows and weekly highlights will be shown on Africa Magic Family channel.   Telecoms’ incompetence fueling kidnapping in Nigeria…     Troops rescue 22 abducted Niger victims     You are a terrible liar, Tinubu lashes Atiku   If you are having issues watching the show on GOTV, all you need to do is go to the MENU button on your GOTV remote control, press Advance option, and then press installation and then reset, after that press OK. After which you wait for a few minutes while it reinstalls, you can then go to channel 29 and start watching the BBNaija show live. *For DSTV Subscribers Subscribers of DSTV can watch Big Brother Naija on channel 198. It’s available on all DSTV packages (DSTV Access, DSTV Family, DSTV Compact, DSTV Compact Plus, and DSTV Premium) Big Brother Naija season 7 will be broadcast live 24/7 on DStv channel 198 with the live eviction shows and weekly highlights will be shown on Africa Magic Showcase Channel 151, Africa Magic Urban Channel 153 and Africa Magic Family channel 154.    *On DSTV Now App If you have an active DSTV subscription and would like to stream from your mobile device then download the DStv Now App which is available on Google Playstore and the App Store. To live stream via laptop/desktop head over to now.dstv.com and sign in with your decoder details. You should note that apart from being an active DSTV subscriber, you also need a fast internet connection (preferably 3G, 4G LTE, Wi-Fi) and a data plan which preferably should be an unlimited data plan.   *On Showmax Showmax is a video-on-demand service in Nigeria that gives subscribers access to the best local and international series episodes, movies, documentaries, and kids’ shows. You can now watch the “Big Brother Naija” show live 24/7 on the online streaming platform.