D’Tigress captain Adaora Elonu talks about connecting with Nigeria while growing up in Houston, U.S and how her upbringing influenced her career choice in this interesting and revealing interview with Taiwo Alimi.  The skipper of the Nigeria National Female Basketball team; D’Tigress Adaora Elonu was just kidding with the game in High School until her parents pushed her fully into it. Though her two older brothers have been playing the game, she simply tagged along for a reason; to stay active. Then, her mother came into the picture. FINDING BASKETBALL Elonu, 32, said of her formative basketball years: “I found basketball just through wanting to be active while I was in middle school, which is similar to Primary School in Nigeria. I just wanted to do other sports and basketball was one of them. My two oldest brothers play basketball as well and so it was something that I know about and aspired to play. Volleyball is one of the organised sports that I played in Primary School. I really enjoyed that before moving on to basketball. But basketball is the one that caught on in different circumstances and opportunities. PARENTAL INFLUENCE “My parents did not try to stop me from playing, if anything they encouraged me. I remember my mum pushing me into it more. I started at 12 and I was okay just playing at school but she pushed me into playing competitive basketball like the summer league and playing against other teams. So, instead of trying to persuade me not to play, they push me to take it to a different level.” GROWING UP She recalled aside from her mum, she also had the support of all her family members, especially his brothers. “Growing up was good and fine. I have two older brothers and two younger sisters. We spent a lot of time together and had fun. We do things together and have someone to compete with. We also connected with the Nigerian community in Houston, where we grew up so definitely we had a strong connection with Nigeria.” The close-knitted family ties also helped build a competitive and team spirit in the CB Avenida-Spain forward. “So, growing up was great which, enable me to have a strong sense of family ties and I think it influenced my career because a basketball team is like family. Joining the national team, I see them like my family and like my sisters. It is very important to build chemistry and bond together if you want to succeed.” Though she was quickly hooked on the game, she climbed slowly yet progressively. JOURNEY TO THE TOP “My journey to the top could be described as slow and steady. It was not like a burst of talent that erupted into the scene. I wasn’t too good starting out. The potential was there and I had my height helped me. My height definitely helped me when I was younger, then I was able to coordinate myself. Then, having my parents push me as well as coaches helped me develop my game. By the time I got to High school, the development kept going until opportunities came through having to play at different levels to gain exposure. Up to College, where I was able to develop my game to another level onto the professional aspect. “In between, I developed a basketball goal, with help from a member of the family; my uncle, who helped my brother and me when we shoot behind the house. Those were the details that helped me along the way.” BETWEEN OTHER SPORTS AND BASKETBALL Elonu found she was good in many sports-at least four- in High School. That she settled for basketball in College was divine. “When I was in High School, I did basketball, volleyball, track, high jump and I wanted to do football, which I grew up playing. It was my very first sport. But when the schedule was laid out I could do not do both. At the same time, I was peaking in basketball and so, I decided to do basketball instead of soccer. Then, the College I chose to go to was the one my brother attended and they only offered me basketball. That kind of settled it for me.”   Dani Alves: Retirement not in my plans yet     JOE ARIBO: European title my target at Southampton     MO FARAH: How I was trafficked to UK as a boy   CAREER MOTIVATOR Her biggest motivation, however, is derived from herself. “I definitely try to be the best I can be so I’m my biggest motivator. I want to be the best person that I can be. I definitely don’t want to let myself down. Letting myself down is like not being the person I want to be, letting my family down, letting my friends down, letting my community down. It means a lot to me. My family motivates me because they are a part of me. My friends and my community too.” Rising to become captain of the captain of Nigeria female basketball team is not by accident. Aside from being one of the longest-serving players, since winning her first medal,  bronze, at the 2015 AfroBasket Women Championship, she’s strongly connected to her roots. CONNECTION WITH NIGERIA “I’m connected with Nigeria in all kinds of ways because it’s the way I was brought up. My parents did an amazing job after moving to the (United) States keeping close to their roots. All of that is ingrained in us. There is no Nigerian music; from afrobeat to gospel to instrumental that I don’t know. As for the food that is essentially all that we eat here. Okpa is prominent among our staple; gari, pounded yam, palm oil, crayfish, abacha, akamu, are some of the foods that I must have in my bag when I travel to Europe to play. It’s normal where I stay in the U.S because the population of Nigerians is growing. The language, Igbo has been spoken to us since we were little so we speak it back. The clothing is not an everyday thing but we do wear them. Definitely, our connection with Nigeria is strong.” Elonu has remained solid in the Nigerian team amassing three gold medals back to back from 2017 to 2021. She was named the tournament’s Most Valuable Player (MVP) last year. She led Nigeria to the 2018 FIBA Women’s World Cup in Spain and would have done the same this year if the Nigerian government had not stopped the team. SHORT AND SHARP WITH ADAORA FAVOURITE MALE PLAYER My favourite player male is Luis Scola. He plays for Argentina. I think he was very dynamic and very smooth in his game. His footwork was impeccable. FAVOURITE FEMALE PLAYER And for women, I would go with Mfon Ndoka, the former D’Tigress player. I just recently saw her game. We shared the same number on the national team and I saw many of her clips, while, trying to improve my game, and I would say that she’s very good. She’s on top of my list. IF NOT BASKETBALL If wasn’t playing basketball, I believe I would be in the administrative or medical field or the sporting industry. Ideally, I would in the service work, which, would tie with the foundation I started. ADA FOUNDATION The Ada Foundation came about in wanting to be active in Nigeria and also in the area where I stay in the United States. I always feel that it is in my place to contribute to certain things and I feel that maybe I do have enough to start something, but I feel strongly that l just had to start somewhere. It is one of the best decisions that I’ve ever taken. In every event that I have done, I received more than I’ve given. I feel a sense of joy and pride and wish I have started a long time ago. I feel that this is my life’s work and I want to give my time, my energy, my experience, and all to it. We try to look at different areas where girls and women need assistance. Is it in the area of sports equipment, shelter, schooling, and health education for young women? I think that women are an important part of development in Nigeria and I want to in my own little way be a part of the solution. WORLD CUP MISS Yes, we are not going to the World Cup. There is no World Cup, we just have to prepare for the next competition and see where we go from there.