The completion of a N187.58 billion largest corporate bond issuance by Dangote Industries Limited (DIL) was a vote of confidence in the Dangote Group and the immense potential of its forthcoming Dangote Petroleum Refinery. Managing Director, Vetiva Capital Management Limited, Mr Chuka Eseka said the diversity and quality of investors in the bond were evidences of the investors’ confidence in DIL. He said Vetiva was delighted to have acted as joint lead issuing house and bookrunner to the N187.58 billion bond issuance, which made history as the largest single bond issuance by a corporate in the Nigerian capital market. “This impressive outing by DIL is a testament to investor confidence in the company and the revolutionary potential of the project to be funded with the proceeds of the bond issuance. “We thank the board and management of DIL for trusting us and the other professional parties on this landmark transaction and giving us the opportunity to deploy our capital raising expertise on the issuance,” Eseka said. The bond issue attracted participation from a diverse range of institutional investors, including pension funds and asset managers, supported by an AA+ rating from GCR and an AA (ngr) rating from Fitch. The strong level of subscription was regarded as an indication of the investor confidence placed in DIL’s position as the largest and most diversified industrial conglomerate in West Africa, its strong management team, business strategy and credit profile. Managing Director, Dangote Industries Limited (DIL), Mr. Olakunle Alake expressed delight at the remarkable success of the bond issue and commended the issuing houses and other professional parties for working tirelessly to ensure the timely and successful completion of the bond issue. “We are highly pleased at the level of reception from the investor universe on the series I bond issuance and to have set this remarkable milestone, showcasing the depth and liquidity of the Nigeria debt capital market. “The success of this transaction further demonstrates investor confidence in our credit story and the appreciation of the work done by the group across several key sectors that are crucial to the development of the continent,” Alake said.   Lafarge Africa empowers youths     Sovereign Trust Insurance seeks N1.42b from shareholders     Investors scurry for safety in big banks   He outlined that the net proceeds from the landmark transaction would be used to part-finance the Dangote Petroleum Refinery project,  an initiative by the group to establish the largest refinery in Africa, thus positioning Nigeria as a net exporter of refined crude. “We appreciate the trust which our investors have reposed in us, as well as our various advisors and stakeholders,” Alake said. The N187.6 billion Series 1 Bond was the first issuance by DIL at group level. The bonds  comprised of a seven-year tranche-A bond issued at 12.75 per cent and a 10-year tranche-B bond issued at 13.50 per cent. The N187.6 billion bond was issued under the group’s newly established N300 billion debt issuance programme. The bonds will be listed on the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) and FMDQ Securities Exchange. DIL is one of the leading, diversified and fully integrated conglomerate with operations in Nigeria and Africa across a wide range of industries, including cement, sugar, salt, condiments, packaging, energy, fertiliser and petrochemicals. The group’s core business focus is to provide local, value-added products and services that meet the “basic needs” of the African populace through the construction and operation of large-scale manufacturing facilities in Nigeria and across Africa. DIL is focused on building local manufacturing capacity to generate employment, reduce capital flight from Africa and increase local value additions. The group has 11 distinct business lines, with the cement, sugar and salt business currently contributing majority of the group earnings. These subsidiaries are industry leading players with strong brand values, underpinned by long operational track record, diverse customer base, ongoing investments in capacity expansion and control over their respective value chains. DIL also has two project companies, Dangote Oil Refinery Company Limited (DORC) and Dangote Fertilizer Limited (DFL), located at the Lekki Free Zone in Lagos State, which together with DIL will serve as co-obligors on the bond issue. DORC is a 650,000 barrels per day  integrated crude oil refinery and petrochemical plant, which is expected to be Africa’s largest oil refinery, while DFL is expected to be Africa’s largest granulated urea fertiliser manufacturing facility, with a production capacity of up to 2.8 metric tonnes per annum (Mtpa). DIL is currently domestically rated AA+ by GCR and AA (ngr) by Fitch Ratings