Transforming the food system, analysts believe, can help reduce hunger and malnutrition and assist Nigeria to meet the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). DANIEL ESSIET writes. Transforming Nigeria’s agricultural sector is crucial to up recovery, poverty reduction and inclusive growth. There is, therefore, the need to reform the food system towards higher productivity and sustainability. To this end, the Federal and state governments have set an agenda to move the sector. Consequently, they are making efforts at creating jobs, raising farmer incomes and ensuring that the nation’s food security is not affected. Several projects have been executed to  raise agricultural productivity, and reduce poverty in rural communities. An example  is the implementation of the Food Systems Transformation Pathways. It is a strategic plan aimed at growing and growing the nation’s agriculture. To this end, the Lagos Ministry of Agriculture, in conjunction with its Economic Planning and Budget counterpart, organised the Southwest Zonal Sensitisation Workshop. During its opening, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu emphasised the state’s commitment to support food system upgrade in the Southwest through regional integration of initiatives. Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Mr. Samuel Avwerosuo Egube, noted that  it  was  in line with this that the  Ministry of Agriculture developed the Five-Year Agricultural and Food Systems Roadmap (2021-2025) to scale up the state’s production and processing capacity and improve its competitiveness. He said Lagos residents consume about N4.5 billion food daily. He said: “The Lagos State Agricultural and Food Systems Roadmap is a deliberate effort to develop the agricultural sector by way of interventions from the public and private sector, as well as, international technical and donor organisations where it has competitive and comparative advantages towards enhancing the states self-sufficiency in food production. Our aim is to make the entire agricultural sector more attractive and for core investors to be the main drivers. As a state government, we will continue to provide infrastructure and incentives to support all private sector initiatives where required, on public-private partnerships.” He listed  the  interventions to include the Agricultural Value Chain Enterprise Activation Programme where over 10,000 youths trained in agriculture had their business enterprises activated; establishment of 32 metric tonnes per hour(MTPH) rice mill in Imota that will produce over 2.4 million bags of Rice (50kg) yearly; collaboration with the Food and Agriculture Organisation/United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (FAO/UNIDO) for  the development of coconut; establishment of Lagos State Food Production Centre in Epe and Badagry, and Lagos Agro-preneurship Programme (LAP) that serves as incubation centres for youth training. Others were  partnership with the private sector for the establishment of the Lagos Aquaculture Centre of Excellence (LACE) with the capacity to produce 50 million fingerlings and process over 2,000 metric tonne(Mt) table size fish yearly and off-take from over 5,000 nucleus farms; food market system transformation initiative with the establishment of central food security system and logistics hub at Ketu-Ereyun, Epe and mid-level agro produce hub at Idi-Oro, Mushin. He added the establishment of cage and pen culture on water bodies in various locations to enable 500 youths and others. He appreciated the efforts of the Federal Government to ensure that the Food Systems Summit, in conjunction with the UN, is developed to guide governments and other stakeholders to identify and implement reforms that would transform food systems towards achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Sanwo-Olu emphasised the significance of transforming agri-food systems toward improved environmental, economic and social sustainability as well as climate-resilience. Nationwide, efforts to enhance food security protect the livelihoods of farming families and improve the resilience of rural communities and support activities aligned with achieving the UN SDGs have become even more challenging. However, the Lagos Commissioner for Agriculture, Ms. Abisola Olusanya, underlined the government’s commitment to eradicating hunger and achieving the SDGs.   Assisting universities to lift agric production     Ex-Adamawa Gov Nyako commissions solar-powered dairy factory     Transforming cassava farming   Her words: “Food systems are an important part of the national economy and have contributed to a variety of solutions to developmental challenges. Consequently, improving food systems may help solve a number of issues common to most developing countries such as food insecurity, unemployment, etc. Lagos State is not an exception to this as agricultural and food value chains provide for approximately more than 40 per cent of the economically productive people. This and others are the reasons the UN called for the Food System Summit to strengthen food systems because they occupy a very good position in contributing immensely to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) efficiently and effectively. The summit is, therefore, primarily put in place to seek modalities and strategies to assist governments and other stakeholders in identifying and implementing food system reforms to achieve the SDGs.” She noted: “It is worthy to note that Lagos State is dedicated to achieving the SDGs. Thus, the state government has implemented numerous projects/programmes to address hunger, malnutrition, unemployment, and underemployment and boost food production and supply systems in line with her Agricultural and Food System Roadmap (2021-2025) that was launched by Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, The Governor of Lagos State in 2021.” The Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning wants to champion a transformation initiative designed to boost agricultural productivity. Its Permanent Secretary, Mrs Olusola Idowu Emokpae,  recalled that  the under the auspices of the National Food Summit dialogues, about 40 Exploratory Dialogues were organised in some selected states and targeted communities across the six geopolitical zones. The dialogue, according to her, saw the active participation of relevant groups such as women, youths, indigenous people, Non-Government Organisations (NGOs) as well as the private sector. She said: “The purpose of the dialogue was to harvest ideas, and come up with recommendations/solutions to food challenges to change the narrative of food and nutrition in Nigeria. The recommendations drawn from the various dialogues were further synthesised into short, medium and long- term priority actions for sustainable food systems in Nigeria. This was submitted to United Nations and for ease of reference has been printed into a booklet. Let me reiterate that as part of our commitments to ensuring seamless implementation of the Food System Transformation Pathways, an implementation team, made up of key stakeholders, was constituted to develop an Implementation Plan for the three selected quick-win programmes out of the 80 priority recommendations of the Food Systems Transformation Pathways for Nigeria.” According to her, the meeting focused on three low-hanging fruit programmes and 80 priority actions. She added: “The Ministry has also constituted an Inter-Ministerial Technical Working Group made up of key stakeholders drawn from relevant MDAs and Development Partners to monitor and track the implementation of the three selected quick-win programmes across relevant sectors of the economy at the federal level. It is required that the same arrangement would be made at the state level. It suffices to state that the role of the private sector is important because it has critical roles to play in the transformation of our food system.The involvement of the private sector in our food system has helped to improve the entire food value chain – production, transportation, marketing, processing, distribution, etc. The sector has gone far in the establishment and running of farm estates as well as agro-allied structures that will support food availability, security and achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. Resident & Humanitarian Coordinator, UN System, Mathias  Schmale,  commended the Federal Government for its efforts towards sustainable food systems in the country. He recalled the dialogues organised last year  by the Ministry of Budget and National Planning with the support of the UN System, ahead of the UNFood Systems Summit convened by the UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres in September. He maintained: “One overarching issue for the summit was to develop game-changing strategies for a dramatic transformation of food systems that achieve healthy, sustainable diets that are produced with equitable access, and that preserve or regenerate our environment. To implement the post-summit resolutions, the Federal Government called for national dialogues in coordination with the UN family. Specific, actionable, multi-stakeholder input priorities, challenges, and opportunities were agreed to redesign Nigerian food systems at national and sub-national levels.” According to him, the momentum at which the Federal Government is accelerating the national food systems transformation pathways is highly commendable, as well as their implementation of the 80 recommendations from the national dialogue. The Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Agriculture, Mrs. Tokunbo Ibironke Emokpae, reiterated that the state was  strengthening agricultural collaboration to boost food production. She maintained that the state was committed to the implementation of the various technical cooperation projects to achieve food security, and increased productivity.