Barely 48 hours after seven of the remaining 50 passengers kidnapped from the Abuja-Kaduna AK9 train attacked in March were freed, indications have emerged the terrorists collected N100 million on each of the seven victims. The only freed foreigner was believed to have paid N200 millions . The Nation also gathered the terrorists were demanding N100 million on each of the 43 hostages remaining in captivity. Sheikh Ahnad Gumi‘s spokesman, Malam Tukur Mamu, on Saturday announced the release of seven victims through mediation. Mamu, who is the Lead Negotiator between the terrorists and the Federal Government, was however silent on whether ransom was paid to the terrorists or not. A source said the bag seen on the ground when the terrorists posed for a group photograph with the released victims in the picture released by Mamu contained the ransom.   Ganduje frees 90 inmates in celebration of Sallah     Nigeria under siege of terrorists, bandits – ACF     Nigeria faring better under Buhari – Presidency    However, a source who said his brother was among the freed captives, alleged N100 million in dollar equivalent was paid as ransom before each victim regained freedom. According to the source, one of the freed captives had offered to singlehandedly pay the terrorists N200 million for all the remaining 50 captives “but, the terrorists rejected the offer and asked every hostage to pay N100 million and breathe the air of freedom. “Those who could not pay are still in the forest. The terrorists were claiming that they spent huge sum of money in taking care of the hostages over the past three months. “For each of the six Nigerian victims, their families paid N100 million, but the terrorists collected N200 million for the foreigner, a Pakistan national. “We learned that only N200 million was collected in Naira but the remaining N600 million was paid in dollars. “Since government couldn’t help and there were threats on the lives of the victims, we sold our property and other belongings to pay the money.”