MTN Foundation has invested about N1billion in the past 16 years in the Musical Society of Nigeria (MUSON), its Chairman, Prince Julius Adelusi-Adeluyi said during the 15th MTNF-MUSON Graduation Concert held at the MUSON Centre, Onikan, Lagos. Prince Adelusi-Adeluyi said: “MTN entered into a partnership with the Musical Society of Nigeria in 2006 and since then, we have not looked back. So far, we have expended nearly N1billion to make sure that the objectives of the MUSON centre are achieved.” In partnership with MUSON, MTN Foundation provides scholarships to 30 eligible musically talented youth annually. The scholarship grant covers tuition, books and transportation and more over a two-year period. Upon graduation, each recipient is awarded an internationally recognised Diploma in Music by MUSON. According to a report published by KPMG, it was revealed that the Nigerian music sector’s revenue grew from $26 million in 2014 to $34 million in 2018. This figure is expected to grow to $44 million by 2023.’’   Flourish Africa Fund empowers 500 female entrepreneurs     NGX woos investors to Africa’s growth market     Roles of capital market in national development, by experts   Speaking to the 2022 class, the chairman assured them that their future would be guaranteed if they continue to hone their musical skills and talents. MTN Foundation recently donated a modern music studio and musical equipment worth nearly 100million to the MUSON School of Music. The donation included a modern fully-equipped music studio, 30 laptops, one unit of professional 4 and a half Octaves Marimba, custom series; 1 unit of Malltech 4.0 Octave Bob Becker Ragtime Xylophone; one unit of Viscount Unico 400 Organ – A3 manual organ with 32 notes pedalboard, 56 Register Tabs plus 7 Orchestral Registers; four Units of Stentor “Conservatoire” Violin; three Units of Armstrong USA Trumpets and 3 units of Essex EUP-116 Upright Piano. The MTN Foundation, through its Youth Empowerment initiative, continues to support young creative talents. Since 2006, the Foundation has fully funded and developed over 350 music scholars through scholarship awards for a two-year diploma at the MUSON School of Music.