Pan African Creative Agency, Arden & Newton BMC have hosted experts and stakeholders on Gender and Disability to the premiere of its social documentary and the unveiling of the two-part study and report on intersectionality, gender, and disability. The agency, through its social responsibility arm, The Good Partner with the funding support of one of the world’s largest donor organisations, Ford Foundation had embarked on an 18-month two-part study on ‘The study of the resilience of women with disabilities in resource-producing communities’. The event featured a panel of development experts across gender and disability on ‘Investigating the intersectionality of Gender and Disability in Extractive Communities’. The panel, which featured Adenike Oyetunde Lawal, Senior Special Adviser to Lagos State Governor on Persons with Disabilities; Chuks Ofulue, Government Relations Professional & Research Consultant; Emily Offodile, Secretary, Women in Mining; Debasaki Mac-Ikemenjima, Senior Programme Officer, West Africa, Ford Foundation, was moderated by Jennifer Nkem-Eneanya, Media Entrepreneur. The panellist advocated the need for the implementation of the laws that protect and provide support for women and persons with disabilities. They added that it is important for the government, non-government organisations (NGOs) and other stakeholders to educate people in the society on disabilities as a step toward creating a mind shift against marginalisation and stigmatisation. Adenike argued that while “WWDs are not culturally encouraged to find a way out” of their various challenges, there is a need to work on the attitude, mindset, and behaviour of women with disabilities to be receptive to the intervention and solutions made available to them by the government and other organisations. According to her, “there has been a measure of distrust in the institutions and the system by people with disabilities which needs to be gained.” Chuks stated that there was the need for implementation of the legislative reforms on disability as enforcement is non-existent on the part of the government. He added that the implementation needs to start from the grassroots.   Strengthen cybersecurity to remain safe, CBN urges OFIs     Marie Tecnimont supports Nigeria’s development     Wema Bank seeks women’s participation in tech industry   Mac-Ikemenjima added that there should be an analysis that examines the power dynamics that displace women from the system and also design a programme that solves the complexity of issues facing women with disabilities. Speaking on the ignorance of people about the plight of people with disability and bridging the gap, Adenike stated that there was a spectrum of people that exist and it is first important to know the spectrum of disabilities. She stated that while the language used to refer to people with disabilities is a common issue, there is no one way to address disabilities, the best way however is to ask WWDs how they would love to be addressed. Also, the reports were launched by the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, represented by Hasana Jummai Sha’aba; Programme Officer, Gender, Racial and Ethnic Justice, Olufunke Baruwa; Representative of the Chairman of the Joint National Association of Persons With Disabilities, Mr Ernest Igbuzor; Senior Programme Officer, West Africa, Ford Foundation, Dabesaki Mac-Ikemenjima; Government Relations Professional & Research Consultant, Chuks Ofulue and the Project Lead and Creative Director, Arden & Newton, BMC., Perez Tigidam. Sha’aba, noting that the ministry has contributed significantly to women, pledged the ministry’s support for women with disabilities. Speaking on the documentary, The Other Women, which premiered at the event, The Project Lead and Creative Director of Arden & Newton, Perez Tigidam, said: “As the world strives to create innovative socio-economic solutions that help make life and living a pleasant experience, society must provide equitable conditions for every member to have access to such experience. “We believe that this film would put into visual perspective the reality of female disability in Nigeria and move policymakers and various stakeholders to drive legislative reforms that protect the rights of the disabled, enable social inclusion and ultimately create a better society for all.’’ The Other Women is a social documentary that catalogues the firsthand experience of women living with disabilities in resource-producing communities in Nigeria. It captures the stories of their struggles, resilience, aspirations and achievements living in communities where they have to go beyond the ordinary to fit into social and commercial life. Mac-Ikemenjima urged participants to humanise people with disabilities. According to him, “they are persons first, before anything else and their weaknesses and deficiencies don’t define them.” He also urged people and organisations to commit their resources and time to help break the barriers that affect people with disabilities and help them achieve their dreams and aspirations.