PA Mustafa Olatunji has come a long way as a voter. At over 100 years, the Iragbiji, Osun State born veteran voter has participated in many elections in the country, dating back to the ‘Awolowo days’. When a fresh election beaconed yesterday, Pa Olatunji, though bent by the strains of age, was not one to shirk his responsibility. He picked his walking stick and gently walked his way to LA Primary School, Popo, Iragbiji to vote one more time as the oldest voter seen at the polling unit. He was prompt too, joining other voters for accreditation as early as 8.30 am. Curious reporters soon swarmed around him for him to tell his story. “Voting is my civic responsibility,” he said in response to one of the questions thrown at him and recalled that he had been voting since the days of the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo. Awolowo was the first Leader of Government Business and Minister of Local Government and Finance in the defunct Western Region from 1952 to 1959. He said: “I am over 100 years and I have been voting since the days of Awolowo.   IPOB demands Senator Bulkachuwa arrest     Fayemi sacks political appointees     FEC wishes Osinbajo quick recovery   “I am happy with the election process and always motivated to see people coming out to vote during elections. “Election is the only process by which people can choose the leaders they want.” And he was not the only old man to come out yesterday for the election. There was also 95-year-old Pa Benjamin Adekunle who arrived at Unit 7, Ward 8, at Oogi in Ayedaade Local Government Area with his wife as early as 7:00 am. That was even before INEC officials got there. Pa Adekunle recalled that the first he voted in an election was 70 years ago. He insisted that Nigeria has a bright future in spite its current challenges and urged younger Nigerians not to lose hope in the ability of the country to overcome. Also at the polling unit was 90-year-old Mrs. Shabina Oladipo. “I have always voted in elections and I won’t stop,” she said.a