Ondo State Deputy Governor, Lucky Aiyedatiwa, has called on philanthropists in the state to invest more in grassroots football to harness potential talents across the 18 local government areas of the state. Aiyedatiwa, who made the call at the official launch and logo unveiling of bet9ja Ondo State football league in Akure, urged the Ondo State Football Association to ensure future champions and players for clubs, especially, for Sunshine Stars, be produced through the competition. The Deputy Governor who was represented by the General Manager, Ondo State Football Agency (ODSFA), Akin Akinbobola, said the league would encourage football activities across the 18 local government areas, as the state league would identify talents for national and international engagements. “This is laudable, this is the beginning of grassroots league. I commend state FA for the noble and laudable initiative which would afford the talents abound in the state showcase themselves. “Competitions have been organised in the state before now, but I must say this Bet9ja competition is novel, well structured, I pray for the success of the bet9ja competition.   Joshua rejects Fury’s training offer for Usyk rematch     Galtier replaces Pochettino as PSG coach     Malacia becomes first Man Utd signing under Ten Hag   “Our government will continue to support any initiative driven towards development of our youths at the grassroots,” he said. Aiyedatiwa called on well to do individuals to invest more in the development of football in the state. Meanwhile, in his remarks, the Chairman, Ondo State Football Association, Otunba Dele Ajayi, said the state football league would provide a pool of talents for clubs in the state to tap from. Ajayi said scouts would be brought for the competition, as he appreciated Bet9ja for coming to the aid of the association in terms of development of grassroots football. “The committee needs your cooperation. We were voted in last year and all our programmes have been successful and I appreciate my board members for their support and cooperation,” he said.