WITH barely few months away to ushering in electioneering campaigns nationwide, going by the comprehensive time table of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), towards the 2023 General Elections, Enugu State and indeed Nsukka Enugu North Senatorial Zone, where the incumbent governor, Rt. Hon Dr Ifeanyi Lawrence Ugwuanyi would be contesting the seat to represent that zone at the prestigious Red Chambers of the Senate, will likely be the focal point. For proper perspective of the zone, Enugu North Senatorial Zone is indeed Nsukka the populous Town and area hosting the ageless and foremost citadel of learning the University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN). There are six Local Governments in that Senatorial zone adjudged to have the highest electoral voting power in the entire Enugu State. The last primaries conducted in the State to produce a governorship candidate for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), undoubtedly ruffled a few feathers, which should be natural winners and losers in any political contest. The expectation of a few might have been dashed especially some from that zone who had thought the Governor would favour an area still at the same Enugu East, that has filial relationship with Nsukka . Most seem not to understand the chemistry of the man Ugwuanyi, highly coated in an alchemy that portrays him as upright, equity and fair play, one that is not parochial, never given to nepotism and partisanship. A case in point is the shock of not enthroning his nephew and relation of his mother who was Deputy Chairman of an outgoing chairmanship of Isi-Uzo Local Government, where this writer comes from. All and sundry had thought he was going to be the next Chairman of the Council but against all odds, when it was time to get a PDP candidate for the Local Government election conducted in February this year, the slot went to the then Secretary to the Council who is now the present Chairman for Isi-Uzo Local Government. That is Governor Ugwuanyi ‘s style, that is his makeup, not one who throws his weight around, never your aggressive type of politician but very effective in whatever he wants and succeeds in everything, he sets out to accomplish. This however will be a topic for another day. Ever since the last gubernatorial primaries, a few unguarded statements have rent the air about his neglect for the zone Nsukka, where the Governor hails from Orba Town in Nsukka, which are untrue and this forms the thrust of this essay. From a distance and from my observatory point, the Governor had transformed Nsukka with unprecedented infrastructural developments very glaring for all to vide. Before now, there had been a lopsided ratio of unemployment with people from that Enugu North Senatorial zone, very low on the rungs of the State Civil Service. Since becoming Governor he has more than balanced the appointments and genuinely appraised his kith and kin into top careers in the public service and parastatals of government purely on merit. That is his unique style and he did it quietly and unannounced. It will be impolitic and indecent to run such names in the print. A host of qualified persons of Nsukka origin in various gamuts of human disciplines are today occupying key positions in government. In doing so, he had ensured that no particular area or zone is disadvantaged as he had extended the normal cliché, Democracy Dividends’, to all the nooks and crannies of Enugu State. He has equally empowered lots of youths and businessmen and women from the area. In those years of yore, drivers who had plied Nsukka roads and back were easily picked out from the crowd because their vehicle tyres, easily gave them out due to the particular soil and sand that paints their vehicles with the pancake of a soil. The roads were terribly bad full of pot holes that most drivers plying those roads hardly agree to go on these roads. If ever they agree, the charges are almost double the normal fare. In less than seven years on seat, he has changed all that giving Nsukka the real and new face of a University Town. His attainments in Nsukka particularly are a litany. Since this is the subject of discourse and to properly situate a Man who has done so much for his people that posterity would forever enshrine his name in the minds of generations yet unborn, it is germane to box it up in portmanteau Nsukka Yesterday, Nsukka Today for easy and not too cumbersome to lift and walk along with and also for easy comprehension.   ‘The Asiwaju Bola Tinubu I know’     2023 and growing quest for Electoral Offences Commission     Anxiety as Akwa-Ibom PDP crisis deepens   The Opi to Nsukka dual carriage way leading into Nsukka with illuminating solar lights, is a testament befitting a University Town that has changed the ugly face of Nsukka town which hitherto, was impassable, ramshackle and very annoyingly rural in outlook. One drives now with ease into the city and also around other parts of the township. In tow, is the gigantic 31 kilometre -road Udenu Ring Road , first of its kind with two high tech bridges , that connects to Isi-Uzo, Nkanu East and also neighbouring Ebonyi State. There are several roads opening various communities the Mbu- Ogbodo- Aba- ObolloEke road ,leading to the commercial Town of Obollo Afor on the busy gateway to the Northern part of the country, the ObolloEke rural roads to name a few. In the early life of the administration, the Governor graciously gave each of the several communities that make up the 17 Local Governments of the State, sum of N5 million and N10 million each exclusively for these communities to embark on any projects they might decide, with most of the communities embarking on road rehabilitation to complement government’s efforts. Governor on his own had also constructed one kilometre asphalt road in every community all over the 17 Local Governments in the state. People from Nsukka zone being the largest benefitted a lot from this kind heart and largesse, so to say. Ever visited what had passed as old Nsukka stadium in the past,  which now stands  as glamorously new brand ultra modern Stadium capable of hosting any football tournament both local and international matches. The beauty of the Stadium is that it is fully equipped and should attract the attention of FIFA and CAF football bodies of a superb stadium if well utilised by Nigerian sporting authorities, would earn the State, Country and people of Nsukka good revenue in foreign exchange including good commerce for the indigenous traders. This is not forgetting the intimidating newly built Nsukka Civil Service State Secreariat, standing like a giant in the Sun, with all the attributes of a comfortable working place for civil servants. In the areas of Education, the Governor had attracted the Federal Polytechnic Ohodo Nsukka and perhaps the icing on the cake, the newly approved Enugu State University of Medical and Applied Sciences sited at Igbo-Eno in Nsukka by the National Universities Commission (NUC) a very remarkable legacy and rare feat that would encourage researches and professional expertise. Work has begun in earnest and that is his style quietly done without the usual noise making or blowing one’s trumpet to high heavens. While this article was in the works, the Chairman of Nigeria Bar Association NBA, in Nsukka, Barrister Fred Ugoh on a Radio program, said inter alia, that the Governor had changed the face of the Judiciary in Nsukka by erecting new befitting buildings for the Customary and Magistrate Courts in Nsukka and all the local governments in the state. The lawyer said the people from the area should be grateful because what had existed were dilapidated old colonial buildings that could cave in with age. It is difficult to do justice in this essay with what the Governor had done in Nsukka and environs as he had left a mark in health, as construction of a brand new specialised General Hospital  is ongoing in Nsukka as in other towns in the state , agriculture amongst others have also received greater attention. For a man who has been to the Federal House of Representatives and distinguished himself heading very key Maritime Sectors Committees back to back in the three tenures at the National Assembly, with all his attainments, building a solid political base of colleagues and contacts both local and international, one would be saying the obvious that people from Enugu North Senatorial zone, would benefit tremendously as he goes to the Senate, come 2023. The party PDP is very entrenched in Enugu State. He is at present the Coordinating Chair person of PDP in the entire South East, a very commendable accolade showing his strength, ability and respectability of his person by the Headquarters of the party in Abuja. Very taciturn, a man of strong character, social skills and an achiever, the parameters of suitability and competence are entrenched in his evasive face of humility and hospitality. Nsukka people and indeed his Enugu North Senatorial Zone, owe Governor Ugwuanyi a reciprocal gratitude, to come out en masse when the bell is rung signaling the beginning of campaigns to drum support for this, their beloved Son who had done them proud. Obinwa Nnaji is former Editor of the Enugu -base Satellite and one -time Bureau Chief of the influential East African Daily Nation of Nairobi Kenya.