Three travellers have been abducted on Ogbemudia farm on the ever-busy Benin-Lagos Expressway. Men of Edo State Police Command also rescued unhurt another kidnap victim, Mohammed Jubril at Iyuku bush, Jattu community in Edo North Senatorial District. Edo police Deputy Public Relations Officer, Jennifer Iwegbu, stated these while vowing yhe Command would decisively deal with kidnappers and other recalcitrant elements in the State. She informed the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) in charge of Operations, Miller Dantawaye, was leading an onslaught against bandits with tactical operational elements on the Benin-Lagos.highway. Iwegbu said: “In the early hours of today (Friday), the command received information from its Divisional Headquarters in Okada, Edo State, about the kidnap that occurred along the Benin-Lagos Expressway, by Ogbemudia farm, where hoodlums suspected to be kidnappers, attacked a green Audi car, and whisked away three passengers, whose identities are yet to be ascertained, from the vehicle, into the bush.   Fresh trouble for Tambuwal, Bala, others as court axes Umahi     2023: Buhari hails APC leaders over choice of candidates     Abubakar Aliyu and the never-ending power grid collapse   “The special anti-kidnapping operation is currently going on, to ensure the safe rescue of the victims and to intercept, neutralise or arrest the suspected kidnappers. “In the ongoing special anti-kidnapping operations, in order to get rid of kidnappers and other criminal elements from Edo State, the Divisional Police Officer of Jattu and its operatives, on 21/07/2022, during a gun battle with kidnappers, rescued unhurt a victim, Mohammed Jubril, at Iyuku bush, and recovered one locally-made, single-barrel gun, one live cartridge and a cutlass from the kidnappers, who dropped them and escaped with gunshot injuries.” The deputy PPRO also stated that robust bush combing was ongoing in Jatu and its environs, to arrest the fleeing kidnappers. She quoted Edo Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, as enjoining members of the general to be confident, feel safe and go about their businesses, with the command being on top of the security situation. Iwegbu noted that Yaro called for a continuous collaborative working relationship between the command and members of the public, especially through availing the command with credible and prompt information.