President Muhammadu Buhari, on Friday, vowed that the terrorists behind the Ajata-Aboki massacre, in Shiroro council area of Niger State, will not go unpunished. The Nation had reported that terrorists attacked a mining site in Ajata-Aboki, Shiroro council area of Niger State on Wednesday, killing not less than 43 persons, including 30 soldiers, seven mobile policemen and six civilians, and reportedly abducted several others, including Chinese nationals and locals. In a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, the President, who described the attack as a direct assault on Nigeria, vowed that Nigeria will not bow to terrorists’ pressure and scaremongering. He, however, paid tributes to the gallant men of the security forces who lost their lives in the process of fending off the attack. “We honour our security forces, and particularly those brave souls who have given their lives fighting against the evil that is terrorism. They constitute the best that Nigeria has to offer and we remember each of them.   Row over Peter Obi’s campaign posters on Muslim prayer…     Police deploy over 13,000 officers for AU/UN, ECOWAS…     Doctors, dentists reject bill to amend University Teaching…   “Sadly, Nigeria’s fight against terrorism continues. It is a battle that is taking its toll on all of us. But we shall not relent, nor shall we surrender. “We say it again that we have reduced Boko Haram to a shell of its former self. But terrorists are parasites. They thrive when the world is suffering. “This atrocity only serves to further strengthen us against them. Nigeria is united in obliterating these demons. Each day we grow closer to that goal. When they lash out during times of global suffering it is the act of a cornered animal, an act of desperation. “As always, their goal is the same: to sow fear and division amongst us. We will not let them. “Instead let us pray for the families and loved ones of those who sacrificed their lives in the fight against evil, and let us pray for the safe and speedy return of those abducted. We will do everything possible to ensure their return. “And to the sadists, I say this: we are coming. No matter what rock you crawl under, what hole you sink into, what lie you hide behind, we are coming and we will find you. Shiroro will see justice. Nigeria will know peace,” the President assured.