Operatives of the Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) Zone Two, Onikan, have arrested eight suspects over the attack on the convoy of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. The State House press bus which was in the convoy was attacked at Lagos Island by hoodlums three weeks ago when Tiinubu visited the Oba of Lagos, Rilwanu Akiolu following his return to the state after the presidential primaries. The suspects, according to the AIG, Bode Adeleke, confessed during interrogation that they were sent to carry out the mission. Adeleke who was represented at a press briefing by Zonal spokesperson, SP Hauwa Adamu-Idris, said the police were already on the trail of the alleged mastermind, declining to disclose the identity or possible motive for the attack which injured  some of the journalists. He said the suspects also confessed they belonged to different cult groups including Aye and Eiye. He said: “They are suspected cultists, who attacked the press crew of the APC presidential candidate’s entourage on the day they were to visit the Oba of Lagos. You would recall that the incident occurred at noon on June 19, 2022. “The press convoy was attacked and this was sponsored by someone who we wouldn’t mention his name until he is in the  police custody. “Following investigations, the suspects were arrested individually and they all confessed to have committed the crime. “They mentioned the mastermind and the sponsor’s name. We are investigating to ascertain the motive of the attack. They also belong to various cult fraternities. Investigations are still ongoing and we would get back to the press as soon as we have the principal suspect in our net.” Also paraded were seven suspects including a nursing mother alleged to belong to an armed robbery syndicate that operated at Alaba International Market, Ojo. The suspects, Sunday Alagbogu, 47; Celestine Nnailo, 40; Obinna Jonathan; Onyedika Vincent, 22; Sylvester Nwajagu, 47; Obinna Onu, 39 and Blessing Felix, 32, wife of the alleged principal suspect, Felix Onyema who’s at large, were said to have been in possession of fibre optic cables stolen from a company in Yaba worth over N80million.   Hold FG responsible for violence in Nigeria –Ortom     Two Catholic priests kidnapped in Kaduna     MWUN, others withdraw from national council   The suspects were said to have been arrested by the Zonal Monitoring Unit following credible intelligence received on June 20. “We busted the chain of the  suspected armed robbery syndicate at the Alaba International Market in the Ojo area of the  state and recovered the entire cables stolen from a company in Yaba, valued at N80 million. “The robbers stormed Jus Partners Cosmopolitan Limited, a telecommunications consultancy at Yaba, on June 20, tied the security guards on duty and made away with 16 drums of 96 Core Starlite Optic cables, estimated at N80 million. “Giving this criminal act, the company’s management petitioned the AIG, Bode Adeleke, who consequently detailed CSP Uba Adams -led Zonal Monitoring Unit (ZMU), to uncover the cabals. The unit, immediately swung into action, and deployed its technical and Intelligence-based investigation. “A team of covert detectives accompanied the complainant into the market and directed the company’s representative to pretentiously walk into the heart of the business community on market survey of the particular cables. “This idea turned out fruitful as the first person the company’s representative met, though in the business of buying and selling of such items, later gave the investigating team a lead into nabbing the culprits. “Photographs of the exact cable were shown, and to show commitment, the company was directed to make a down payment of N500,000 before the company’s representative could be taken to the warehouse, a deal that was struck and money remitted into the account of one Felix Onyema, who turned out to be the principal suspect. “Eventually, the cables were recovered from Felix Onyema’s residence at Sibiri, who has since then gone into hiding. Afterwards, all the seven suspects, neck deep in the criminal act, were nabbed by the operatives and taken  to the Zone 2 Police Command”. But Blessing denied knowing anything about the crime, insisting that she only received the goods on the instruction of her husband whom she called when the loaders arrived.