The impact of the International Award for Young People Nigeria (IAYPN), globally known as The Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award, cannot be quantified in monetary terms, its National Director, Oshoke Bello, has said. Bello spoke yesterday at the final day of the IAYPN’s Bronze Award Presentation ceremony which held in Awori Ajeromi Senior Grammar School, Agboju, Amuwo Odofin, Lagos. Pupils of Education District 5 numbering 148  were given bronze awards after participating in various activities such as voluntary service, skill acquisition, adventure, among others. Bello noted that the programme has had tremendous impact on pupils and young people in terms of improved employability, environmental awareness, health, physical and  mental well-being, among others.   ‘My abductors cut my long hair with machete, fearing it was…     Owo attack: US senators want Nigeria restored to religious…     UK to send Nigerian criminals home to serve jail terms   He said: “The programme has a global appeal. It is celebrated in over 130 countries across the globe. The impact and value created cannot be monetised. “You cannot place a monetary value on the impact and experiences that pupils get through the programme. It ensures that pupils and youths are prepared for the future.” The National Director also said the award participants were given the opportunity to acquire experiential learning which is crucial to making them better individuals. “Today’s young people are coming of age. There are many challenges they encounter, but this platform has provided a robust support for them to take part in experiential learning (schooling beyond the walls of the classroom) at different levels,” he said. Bello, however, appealed to the Lagos State Government for support to be able to cover more schools in the state. Director, Human Resources Education District 5, Mrs. Comfort Efekodo, called for a synergy between schools and organisers of the award to create an enabling for pupils to move to higher levels. Participants said they were glad they took part in the life-changing programme.