The Rivers State Government has arrested three persons for allegedly forging staff identification cards in the ongoing verification of retirees. The State Head of Service, Rufus Godwins in a statement in Port Harcourt on Friday said one of the suspects, a civil servant, identified as Enoch conspired with two persons, Arthur and Akama and others at large to commit the crime. The statement said: “The attention of the Rivers State Government has been drawn to the existence of a syndicate of fraudsters who pose as pensioners with forged Rivers State Government Staff Identification Cards to infiltrate the ongoing verification of retirees for payment of their pensions, gratuities and death benefits as approved by Nyesom Wike. Governor of Rivers State. “The criminal activities of these impostors came to the limelight on Thursday, 14 July, 2022, at the venue of the verification exercise, when a serving civil servant, Enoch, in conspiracy with Arthur and Akama with others at large, forged the Rivers State Government Staff Identification Cards for the purpose of facilitating their fraudulent participation in the verification exercise with intent to defraud Government of retirees’ pensions, gratuities, and death benefits. The above named suspects were promptly arrested.”   Fresh trouble for Tambuwal, Bala, others as court axes Umahi     2023: Buhari hails APC leaders over choice of candidates     Abubakar Aliyu and the never-ending power grid collapse   He said the suspects had been arraigned before a Chief Magistrate’s Court in Port Harcourt, the state capital for sundry criminal offences. He said the civil servant (Opara) would also face appropriate disciplinary actions in line with the Public Service Rules. Godwins said: “Meanwhile the fleeing accomplices, at large, are still under the searchlight of the Police, and who would be similarly brought to book when arrested.” The Head of Service said that machinery was in place to fish out ‘for prosecution’, any person with an intent of sabotaging the exercise.