Two survivors of Wednesday’s attack on Craneburg Construction Company site in Owo, local government area, have narrated how they escaped death by the whiskers. The two survivors, Rifum Lawrence, 50, and Abraham Opara, aged 45, are relatives from River State. They were employed as security guards in the firm. Both survivors were in stable condition as of press time when The Nation visited the Federal Medical Centre where they were rushed to for treatment. The motive behind the attack is yet to be ascertained as some policemen said the attackers were at the firm to kidnap expatriates while others said they were at the firm to steal explosives. Some residents in the area, however, insisted that the attackers were terrorists who wanted to kill workers at the firm. A soldier attached to expatriates at the firm was killed in May this year while a Lebanese was abducted. It was gathered that casualty figures would have been high if the workers were outside at the time of the attack. The heavy downpour of rain prevented many of the workers to be outside as the two security men were the only ones outside. Chief Security Officer of the firm, Aladeselu Olatuboson, said the rain kept many of the workers indoors. He said it was the spot where they used to eat that the gunmen shot the two security guards. It was learnt that gunmen, after shooting the security guards started shooting sporadically before they exploded the dynamite. A source said one of the gunmen stationed himself at broken perimeter fence, apparently waiting for the fleeing workers but they were indoors. Checks showed that the heavy-duty trucks parked inside the premises stopped bullets from hitting the building where the workers hid.   CSO makes case for seniority in picking new Accountant…     We’re not aware of such plans, says Education Ministry’s…     Four injured as NURTW, NDLEA operatives clash in Osogbo park   The dynamite exploded at the tyre of one of the trucks. One of the workers said he hid inside the toilet. Lawrence said there were three gunmen and they shot at them instantly hitting him on the left and arm. He said they pretended to be dead by laying still. The gunmen were said to have operated for about 15 minutes. Ondo Police Commissioner, Oyeyemi Oyediran, urged residents to cooperate with the Police in the course of investigations into the shooting. Oyediran, who spoke in a statement by the police spokesman, SP Fumilayo Odunlami, said he led investigative operatives and officers of the Explosive Ordinance Department (EOD) – Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and high yield Explosives (CBRNE) also known as Anti-Bomb Squad to the scene for an on-the-spot assessment. “The Anti Bomb squad confirmed that an Improvised Explosive Device was used to burst a tractor tyre at the scene of crime. “The Command urge the people of the state to be calm as the affected area has been cordoned and investigation has commenced unraveling the mystery behind the incident. “In the same vein, the command is using this medium to warn those who do not know the real situation of things not to cause unnecessary panic within the state by peddling unconfirmed stories relating to the incident.” The lawmaker representing Owo Constituency II in the Ondo State House of Assembly, Ogunmolasuyi Oluwole, described the attack as barbaric. Ogunmolasuyi said the lawmakers would support any initiative that would boost security operations in the state. Last month, terrorists attacked the St Francis Catholic Church, Owo and killed 40 persons while over 60 were injured. Owo is the home town of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu.