Some leaders and chieftains of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Akwa Ibom state are worried that the party’s chances at during the forthcoming 2023 general elections in the state may be threatened as the crisis rocking the state chapter of the PDP took a new turn for the worse during the week. ‘Dare Odufowokan, Assistant Editor, reports. The simmering crisis rocking Akwa Ibom State chapter of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, deepened, during the week, with the official declaration by Senator Bassey Albert Akpan, the member representing Akwa-Ibom North East Senatorial District in the National Assembly, that he is quitting the ruling party and pitching his tent with the Young Democratic Party (YPP). The senator had few days ago announced his resignation from the PDP. It is expected that the Senator will emerge as the governorship candidate of his new party eventually in continuation of his gubernatorial pursuit. A formal defection ceremony was held in his hometown Ibiono Ibom Eastern 1 ward. Akpan and his wife, Imaobong, picked YPP membership cards number 3887 and 5006, respectively. Upon completion of membership registration processes, their cards were presented to them by the state chairman, Pastor Nyenime Andy, on behalf of the party. Close associates of the Senator claimed over 5000 members of the PDP who are supporters of the governorship hopeful, joined the YPP in the state with him last Monday. “And I can assure you that more PDP members across the state will dump the party and join the YPP because of Senator Akpan. He is the preferred governorship candidate of the vast majority of PDP members in Akwa Ibom state. They have been waiting for him to give them direction following the imposition that occurred,” an aide told The Nation. Senator Akpan resigned his membership of the PDP immediately a case instituted by some of his supporters at an Abuja Federal High Court seeking the cancellation of the PDP primaries in the state that produced Governor Udom Emmanuel’s preferred successor, Umo Eno, as candidate. They had argued that the election contravened the party’s constitution. But the court held that the suit lacked merit. The Judge, Obiora Egwuatu, on Friday, ruled that the plaintiffs, having not taken part in the delegates’ election, lacked the locus standi to institute the suit. Senator Albert had refused to take part in the primary, citing the order of a Federal High Court in Abuja that directed parties in the suit to “maintain status quo antebellum” pending hearing and determination of the suit. But the PDP conducted its primaries in the state and Eno was declared governorship candidate. Trouble started for the party last January when Governor Emmanuel publicly endorsed Eno, the then Commissioner for Lands and Water Resources, to succeed him as governor in 2023. Unable to stop Eno’s candidacy through the court, Senator Akpan may have resorted to trying his gubernatorial luck in another political party. This decision, according to sources within the PDP, is creating anxiety within the ruling party. “Senator Akpan is popular within the PDP and the state. He has followers within the party and with his defection, it is the PDP that will lose members and votes,” Hon. Linus  Udoh, a former zonal scribe of the party, lamented. Already, activities at the campaign office of the senator is confirming speculations that Akpan will contest the 2023 governorship election in the state on the platform of the YPP. The current YPP guber candidate, Nyeneime Andy, a Uyo-based pastor, is expected to pull out of the contest in order to give way for a new primary.   Mounting concerns Many party leaders and members across the state are displeased with the defection of Senator Akpan. According to party sources, concerns are being raised by worried chieftains of the party who fear that the happenings within the PDP may weaken its support base ahead of the 2023 general elections. the Nation gathered that several groups within the party have expressed worries about the PDP’s handling of the disagreements that trailed the emergence of Eno as the party’s gubernatorial candidate. A party leader, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, told The Nation that the national leadership of the party was recently called upon to intervene in the crisis rocking the state. According to the former state party secretary, the concerns are not just about Senator Akpan and his supporters but about many party chieftains and members who are displeased about one thing or the other since the primary elections held to elect candidates for the party. “Akpan is not the only aspirant who is disgruntled. They are many and nothing serious has been done to pacify them. Last week, when we saw that the reconciliation effort is either not achieving much or is too slow, we wrote to the National Chairman, and asked him to come and do something urgently. But his response hasn’t come before we lost Senator Akpan to the YPP,” he said.   Nsukka yesterday, Nsukka today: Ugwuanyi’s legacies     ‘The Asiwaju Bola Tinubu I know’     2023 and growing quest for Electoral Offences Commission   Last May, shortly before the PDP gubernatorial primary election, another chieftain of the PDP and renowned governorship aspirant in the state, Akanimo Udofia, defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC), less than a month after submitting his 2023 PDP governorship nomination form. He went ahead to win the governorship ticket of the opposition party after being given a waiver by the National Leadership of the APC, and will be contesting against the candidate of his former party, Eno. The 52-year-old billionaire entrepreneur from Nsit Ibom Local Government Area, Akwa Ibom State, has been the CEO/managing director of a flourishing oil and gas company, Desicon Engineering Ltd. Many chieftains of the ruling PDP are still rueing his exit from the party and lamenting that the APC will benefit from his popularity across the state. “Udofia is well known in Akwa Ibom for his philanthropy and the PDP ought to keep him instead of allowing him join the APC and contest against us,” a PDP chieftain said. Speaking on the development Umoh said should both Udofia and Akpan make it to the ballot box in 2023, “PDP will be contesting against itself in the governorship election in Akwa Ibom state.” He lamented the failure of the party to pacify the two erstwhile aspirants and blamed it on the imposition of candidate by the governor. “Governor Emmanuel cost us the two aspirants when he openly endorsed Eno as his successor. Udofia didn’t wait to partake in the primary election and Bassey Akpan went to court.   Peace moves Last month, the leadership of the party attempted reconciliation of aggrieved party members across the state when it instituted a reconciliation committee headed by Senator Effiong Bob to mediate in the various disagreements within the party. But many party chieftains insist the committee didn’t make much progress. From its very inception, some chieftains of the party condemned the committee for not having representatives of aggrieved groups and members on board. Speaking on the committee’s membership, some PDP chieftains claimed only members of Maintain Peace Movement (MPM), a group in the party loyal to the governor, are on the committee. For them, there was no way such a lopsided committee can address the complaints of aggrieved members. Chief Andrew Unwanta, ex-chairman of the House of Assembly Service Commission, had said the committee was designed to fail. “The committee to me is tilted towards MPM and I don’t think they really want to reconcile aggrieved members of the party because if they are sincere they could have also brought in people outside MPM. It could have been broadbased to accommodate people outside MPM, so for me the committee is merely an extension of the MPM structure. I have strong doubts if they really want genuine reconciliation,” he said. A group within the party, PDP Support Coalition, had also warned the party back then that the membership of the committee does not reflect seriousness. Speaking to the Nation on the efforts made by the party to pacify aggrieved members, the Convener of the group Pastor Patrick Obogo, dismissed the reconciliation put together by the leadership of the PDP as one sided. He lamented that the PDP in the state may have created avoidable problems for itself. “We expressed doubts over the sincerity in setting up the committee. We look at the membership and we were not convinced. But we decided to still give them the benefit of the doubt until they complete their task. Today, nothing has been achieved. The truth is that the current leadership of the party in the state has never accommodated the interest of other people other than those of Governor Udom Emmanuel and Umoh Eno. Now, we all can see where we are,” he said. But the PDP governorship candidate in Akwa Ibom State, Pastor Umo Eno, says he intends to form a government of unity if elected next year, as part of effortsto pacify aggrieved party members and give them a sense of belonging within the party and government. Spokesperson for Team Umo Eno, Dr. Uwemedimo Umanah, said Eno was reaching out to those who contested the PDP ticket with him in a bid to make peace and solicit their ideas and inputs if he became the governor. He said the PDP governorship candidate believed in the governance principles of inclusion and diversity, as such, his administration would be encompassing. Umanah added that Eno had complemented the efforts of the PDP reconciliation committee by reaching out to his opponents, who contested against him in the primary election.