Fear, anger and condemnation trailed Tuesday night’s attack on the Kuje Correctional Centre in Abuja. Observers said if such a secured facility could be breached, with all 64 suspected Boko Haram commanders and other criminals freed, where else is safe? Terrorists on Tuesday night invaded the Medium Security Custodial Centre, Kuje, Abuja freeing several inmates, including 64 Boko Haram members. They also killed a member of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and four inmates in the attack. Minister of Defence, Major Gen. Bashir Magashi, who visited the centre, stated that the situation was under control with soldiers from the Brigades of Guards taking control in the general areas of the facility.   Police, NCS working to capture escaped inmates Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Commissioner of Police, Sunday Babaji vowed to do everything possible to re-arrest the remaining inmates who escaped. Babaji told The Nation that officers and men of the FCT command were working with the armed department of the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCS) to fish out the remaining escaped inmates who are on the run. “The situation is unfortunate but we are working with the NCS to re-arrest the inmates that are on-the-run and we are not resting on this issue”.   Residents panic, plan relocation Following the invasion of the correctional facility, there was pandemonium in the area as residents of Kuje scrambled for safety during and after the attack. As early as 7am, Tuesday morning a military helicopter was seen hovering around the correctional facility. Military officers and other security operatives were seen recapturing inmates that escaped during the attack on the prison facilities. The military intensified stop and search efforts around the Kuje area to further fish out absconded inmates. Some residents of the area vowed to relocate their families and put up their houses for sale due to incessant attacks on Custodial Centres across Nigeria. Expressing shock and disbelief, they concluded that the attack on the FCT Custodial Centre was an eye-opener. Many schools in Kuje were under lock and key following the incident. Some parents also prevented their children or wards from going to  school due to the attack and fear of kidnap by escaped inmates. A resident, who gave his name as Kingsley Ofor, said it was unimaginable that the facility could be targeted given its proximity to the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, the Headquarters of the Nigerian Immigration Service, Civil Defence Corps and Correctional Service located at Sokwa, near Kuje Road. He noted that the Nigeria Airforce also had a barrack within the same area and wondered where the attackers got the boldness to operate unchallenged. Another resident, Malam Aliyu Makama told The Nation that he was fed up with the country’s security issues. Makama said: “The situation has already got out of hand. You don’t need to be told. It has been happening for the past two to three years; in Imo, Oyo, Plateau and Kogi states. We were shocked that those guys operated as if they knew they would get away with it. “We were lucky that all of us were already home when the attacks started. What if anyone had run into them by mistake especially as they came in large numbers around 10.30pm? It would have been terrible. We all lay down inside the house praying quietly.” A female resident who gave her name as Florence expressed concern about the safety of people within the custodial centre vicinity. “We have been hearing of attacks on prisons. Now we have seen it happen here. So everyone should be vigilant, do their work and return home on time. Only God can deliver this country now,” Florence said.   NSCDC to compensate slain operative’s family The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) said it would compensate the family of one of its personnel, Inspector Ilyasu Abraham, who was shot dead during the attack. NSCDC Public Relations Officer (PRO), Mr Olusola Odumosu, described Abraham as a gallant officer. He told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the deceased was deployed to the correctional facility three years ago. Odumosu said that the circumstance surrounding Abraham’s death was unfortunate. “The late Abraham, who was shot, fought bravely before his death as the attack was unexpected. “The Corps Commandant-General (CG), Ahmed Audi is saddened by his death. The CG has assured the family of the slain personnel that all necessary compensation will be delivered in due time,” he said.   Why such attacks happen, by Atiku Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar yesterday attributed the Medium Security Custodial Centre, Kuje attack on the country’s failure to build a system of law and order that prioritises the arrest and punishment of criminals. Atiku, who denounced the attack, expressed concern that the tough criminals who escaped the facility may cause more security issues in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate for the 2023 election tweeted his thoughts via his Twitter handle. Atiku said: “I am concerned and saddened by reports of the attack on Kuje Prison by suspected terrorists. My concern arises not only from the prospects of the escape of detained terrorists and hardened criminals but of its implications for the security of life and property for residents of Abuja and its environs. “I wish to restate what I said on Monday that our inability to enthrone a regime of law and order in which the arrest and prosecution of criminals will be made a priority as a deterrent to copycats, is the reason why insecurity continues to fester in our country.”   Keyamo: Nigeria won’t bow to terrorism Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo (SAN) condemned the attack saying the country would not bow to terrorists. Keyamo, in a tweet on his official Twitter handle, urged Nigerians to be resolute and determined to overcome the forces of evil. “We must remain resolute and determined to overcome these forces of evil in our country. “No amount of terrorist attacks will make us bow to these elements who wish to take away our freedoms and happiness. “I am confident they will ALL be routed eventually!” Keyamo tweeted.     Fed Govt: petrol scarcity will linger until full…     Kuje prison: 64 Boko Haram suspects escape after attack     ‘Tinubu has solution to Nigeria’s problems’    Royal fathers, security operatives should fish out escapees, says FCT Minister   Federal Capital Terrorist (FCT) Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello tasked traditional rulers in the area to work with relevant security agencies to apprehend the escapees. Bello spoke during an on-the-spot assessment of the damage after the attack on the facility. He urged the Gomo of Kuje, Haruna Tanko Jibrin to summon all traditional chiefs in the Kuje Area Council to combine intelligence with security agencies to fish out the escaped inmates from the community. The Minister expressed confidence that with maximum cooperation from the communities, all those who escaped would be traced, found and brought back. He reasoned that “No one could go into any community and blend without being spotted by members of the community.” Bello, who also met with the Comptroller-General, Nigeria Correctional Service (NCS), Haliru Nababa during the visit, described the incident as “very sad and unfortunate”. He added that such incidents threaten everybody, hence the need for everyone to support the security agencies in carrying out their assignments. According to a statement he issued afterwards, the Minister also stated that efforts were underway to strengthen security, not only around the facility but the Kuje Area Council and other parts of the territory. He expressed condolences to the Gomo of Kuje, and sympathised with the family of the NSCDC officer who lost his life during the incident, describing him as “a very fine and gallant officer”.   Attack on President Buhari’s convoy daring, says Akeredolu In a related development, Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu described the attack on the advance convoy of President Muhammadu Buhari by bandits in Katsina State as daring. Akeredolu said the security situation in the country had gone from bad to worse. He said the call for State Police was not for self-aggrandizement but a reality of the time. The Ondo Governor spoke while playing host to his former schoolmates at Loyola College Ibadan (1968/1972) set at his office. Akeredolu said the country’s security challenges had gone beyond Fulani herdsmen to the menace of bandits and ISWAP. He stated that governors in the Southwest were still more than convinced that there was no solution to the security challenges other than having State Police. His words, “The truth is that we will be prepared to protect ourselves and die in the process more than other people from outside. We can only protect ourselves better. “We will be more committed to protecting ourselves. By the time we have State Police; we will be encouraged to recruit people in a Local Government to work in that Local Government as security. “For me, State Police is not for self-aggrandizement. It is a reality of the time. For us in the South and even in the North, I know so many of them that have come to accept that a single command of Police is not good for this country. This country is too big. “We will continue to make our voice heard everywhere. We are almost there. We are licking our wounds here over the June 5 attack in Owo. It is a serious wound. We will never forget. We are putting together a memorial in a conspicuous place in Owo.” Acting President of the Loyola College Old Boys’ Association (1968/1972) set, Mr Ayodele Adigun, said the terrorists’ attack at Owo was aimed at tarnishing the image of the governor and rubbish his efforts on the security of lives and property of the people. “You are the soul of the Southwest on Security. We know your attitude against injustice. Your name has been written in gold in the history of Southwest. “Yesterday we heard about bandits attacking the President’s convoy. We need to end this lawlessness. We need to bring out this evil that is destabilising Nigeria. “As your former schoolmates, we are solidly behind you. We don’t want you to relent in your efforts in championing State Police. The first duty of a government is to provide security of life and property. Without security, there would be no development. Farmers are afraid to go to the farm. Investors are afraid to invest in Nigeria. We must put an end to this insecurity.” Mr Adigun said.   Kuje prison porous, vulnerable, says Ex-Air Force chief   A retired military officer and security expert, Sadeeq Shehu, described the Medium Security Custodial Centre, Kuje, as too porous and thus, vulnerable to attacks. Shehu, a retired Group Captain, spoke during an appearance on Channels Television’s Politics Today following his visit to the centre hours after the attack. According to him, the facility had poor security architecture. He said: “I took time to go to Kuje Prison for the first time today and I was noting the terrain and access to the prison. “As soon as you come to Kuje – the main prison itself, what strikes you is a neglected derelict building. “The main gate which you will enter is so crowded with trees and overgrown shrubs that you cannot see 10 metres ahead of you. I estimate that if somebody with a bad plan wants to move on Kuje prison, nobody will know he is approaching until he is at the facility.”  Hours after the incident, President Muhammadu Buhari visited the scene and expressed disappointment with the intelligence at the facility. Shehu, an adjunct professor at the European Institute of Security Studies believes the security at the facility is below standard. “I am happy to hear that the President said that he was disappointed,” he said. “If the President had come the way I came; even the outer walls of the Kuje Prison are too low for a prison perimeter wall. The barbed wire is against regulation; there are standards for how a security wall that is housing a prison should be. “You should be talking about a wall that is 8 – 16 feet (outer) but by my estimation, what I saw was about 7ft maximum. You are supposed to put three layers of barbed wire on top (of the fence) and the idea is to at least delay an attacker.” The security expert claimed that an intruder could “get into that prison easily. First, the place is clustered and overgrown with grasses which will even give any attacker a cover, especially at the night to move inwards until where the inmates are kept. The requirement is that there should be two fences in a normal prison. “The outer may be opaque, but the inner wall should be like a fence. Between these two (fences), you are supposed to have a clear area so that when someone breaches the outer wall, there is time to engage him before he gets to the main building; that killing zone does not exist there.” He also complained that there were lots of vehicles parked by the fence, stressing that they could also provide cover to intruders. On the way forward, Shehu appealed to the relevant authorities to ensure modern security measures were put in place at the Kuje custodial centre and other correctional facilities across the country.   Story By Emmanuel Badejo, Assistant Editor; Gbenga Omokhunu, Frank Ikpefan, Blessing Olaifa, Abuja and Osagie Otabor, Akure report.