There are serious implications flowing from the observed increase in the number of outgoing and incoming migrants within Nigeria’s borders. The International Labour Organisation (ILO) Senior Technical Specialist on Workers’ Activities, Abuja Office, Inviolata Chinyangarara, highlighted the development at a consultative workshop on June 28, in Abuja, organised to define a roadmap for the development of a trade union labour migration policy. She noted the challenge of monitoring labour migration arising from the fact that migration can be regular and irregular. “Some coming in are counted because they come through the regular process, airports and other ports of entry but the majority that are vulnerable in precarious situations are those that are coming through irregular means,” she observed. Those who come into the country through irregular means may well pose a threat to security, apart from possibly compounding socio-economic conditions. This is why it is important to have an effective vigilance system, despite the difficulty in covering all entry points. It’s striking that more people are coming into the country, mainly from neighbouring countries, seeking a better life, when many of those living in the country are facing increasingly difficult conditions.  This perhaps reflects generally poor conditions in the sub-region. Importantly, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Protocol on Free Movement of Goods and Persons is relevant to developing a trade union labour migration policy.  Under the protocol, citizens of the 15-member countries of the regional group have a right to enter, reside and establish economic activities in the territory of member states. This has its own problematic implications. It would be necessary to take a good look at this protocol in the course of trying to improve migration governance. People move for various reasons, including social, political and economic factors. According to the ILO official, largely in Africa, economic reasons trigger movement of people, especially young men and women. Such migrants are pushed to other countries where they can find greener pastures for employment or enterprise development.   Katsina announces first monkeypox outbreak     9,989 police constables graduate from 16 police colleges,…     Abe’s ally Chioma dumps APC   Notably, the sectors highly hit by migration include health and construction sectors; and cross-border traders and domestic service sectors are said to be “highly mobile.” Brain drain involving highly skilled medical personnel in the country, for instance, shows the negative effect of rising outward migration.  In January, the Medical and Dental Consultants Association of Nigeria (MDCAN) said more than 100 consultants left the services of 17 tertiary health institutions in the country in the last 24 months, adding that their exodus to more developed countries “has brought significant disruptions to Nigeria’s health care ecosystem.” The association attributed the situation to poor welfare, unfavourable working conditions and the level of insecurity in the country. Also, it’s a cause for concern that many of the country’s youths tend to believe they can get a good life only if they move to more developed countries, particularly in the Western world. For instance, a report said nearly 800 Nigerians trying to reach Europe through Libya were repatriated from Libya in the last one year. This is a problem because Nigeria is the ultimate loser.  The solution to this problem includes improving socio-economic conditions in the country. The authorities must wake up to the need for development. The need for a trade union labour migration policy stems from the observation that migration has become a major challenge in Africa for young men and women that mostly travel through irregular processes. Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) Migration Officer James Eustace argued that since labour migrants form the bulk of migrants, “it is very critical and necessary for trade unions to have a framework that guides trade unions activities in migration governance.” Ultimately, this process towards a trade union labour migration policy underlines the importance of border management, security alertness and socio-economic development.