Founder of Embassy of the Blessed Kingdom of God for All Nations, Kyiv, Ukraine, Pastor Sunday Adelaja, has offered reasons why Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate, Peter Obi cannot succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. Adelaja, in a post on his verified Facebook page, said facts and statistics are not on the side of Peter Obi to become the next President. He judged the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to be more qualified than Obi. He said: “The academic qualification of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is better, but even more important than that, the results of Asiwaju’s works are more convincing. “The results of their stewardship convince me that Bola Ahmed Tinubu is a better manager of men and resources. “You only need to take a look at the two states governed by the two of them to know who is better.” On Obi’s party structure, he said: “To win a presidential election in Nigeria, India, or America, your party is only as strong as its strength in the ward level. “Basically what this means is a party must have close to 9,000 party branches to successfully run for the presidency in Nigeria. “I strongly doubt that the Labour Party of Peter Obi has 8809 party branches in Nigeria.   Sam Larry disowns Portable over one million boys…     Akintoye dissolves Ilana Omo Oodua executive council     Caging Kuje escapees   “No wonder all their previous attempts at elections all ended up in failure,” the preacher explained. He further noted: “Peter Obi’s party doesn’t have any elective officials in most places where the country has approximately 5000 elective officials in Nigeria.” He however noted the former Anambra Governor can succeed “after a longer period of preparation.” He noted Obi’s claim that infrastructure doesn’t bring development is another reason why he can’t recommend him to become Nigeria’s president. The cleric said he “cannot see the trace of Peter Obi’s rule in Anambra State. “The only person who praises the works of Peter Obi in Anambra is Peter Obi himself. “I keep wondering though why is he not living in his wonderful Anambra state. “I tried to talk to people from Anambra and when I research the internet I see that Anambra people talk more about the works of Chris Ngige,” he said.