The election in Osun State has been lost by Governor Gboyega Oyetola and won by the candidate of the PDP Nurudeen ‘Jackson’  Ademola Adeleke .This is a replay of the contest of 2018 which Governor Oyetola won under controversial circumstances leading to legal challenges all the way to the Supreme Court which finally decided in favour of Oyetola. One hopes that Oyetola will accept his defeat like a gentleman that he is and congratulate Adeleke for his victory. Adeleke polled 403,371 votes to Gboyega Oyetola’s 375027 votes. The two candidates are separated by about 28,000 votes which are not that many and which means the state is divided down the line and Adeleke must govern in such a way as to placate the losing side if he is to have peace in the state. The incoming governor won in 17 LGAS and surprisingly in Ila LGA, the home of the founding chairman of the APC Chief Bisi Akande while the defeated APC governor won in 13 LGAS. Adeleke defeated the incumbent governor not surprisingly in the state capital which is contiguous to Adeleke’s hometown of Ede. Adeleke’s victory can be explained in many ways. Oyetola as governor by all indications performed excellently, paying salaries and pensions when due and also managing to provide physical infrastructure such as roads and bridges in the state and generally maintaining law and order. What he did not do was sharing money to fellow party men and women as demanded by some party leaders who claimed in the Nigerian fashion that they brought him to power. By training, Oyetola is an accountant and an insurance practitioner and he brought his professional background to bear on husbanding the resources of a state which in the best of times has never been rich and whose internally generated revenue has been dismal and poor. The agricultural basis of states like Ekiti and Ondo and the industrial and commercial revenues of states like Lagos and Ogun states are absent in Osun State. The state does not also have the tax revenue base of its sister state of Oyo. I say all this to moderate the expectations and to avoid disillusionment of the people of Osun State no matter who is governor.   Failure of democracy in Nigeria and the United States     Strategy for peace in Europe     Growing right wing tendencies in the USA   I was in Osun State during the governorship of Abdulrauf Aregbesola. He was an ambitious governor who over-borrowed to develop the state’s infrastructure particularly the roads, airport and fantastic schools he built all over the state. By the time deductions were made from the states normal financial allocation coming from the federal government to amortise the loans he borrowed from banks, there was little left to pay teachers and bureaucrats in the state. This angered the workers to no end. The result of which was open rebellion including the judiciary which was ordinarily expected to be reticent. Aregbesola then espoused some crude socialism in which he paid lower class workers while doling out fractions of the salaries of higher level officers in the civil and teaching services. He also took over private missions schools and imposed the wearing of hijab on Muslim girls in all the schools in the state. He even changed the Gregorian calendar to Islamic calendar to please the Muslim population of the state while angering the Christian community which founded most of the schools the state took over. He was not done yet; even with all these changes until he embraced some poorly digested traditional beliefs on those who did not follow the Abrahamic traditions of Christianity and Islam. Aregbesola left a legacy of good school buildings but also bitterness in the unpaid salaries and pensions and the seizure of missions’ schools and what people felt was his covert Islamisation of the state. Even though Oyetola was Aregbesola’s chief of staff, Oyetola responded to the yearnings of the people by totally abandoning Aregbesola’s policies and returned all the schools to their original owners. Naturally Aregbesola felt betrayed and he locked horns with Oyetola and was determined to deprive Oyetola a second term as governor of the state. This was where Aregbesola ran into conflict with the leader of his party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and threw caution to the wind in his invectives on Tinubu his benefactor. The division in the Osun APC opened the door for Adeleke. We must grant Adeleke the fact of the existence of his family’s tentacles in Ede and the state. Ademola Adeleke’s father was a UPN senator during the second republic.Their father married an Igbo woman turned Christian evangelist and allowed his children to practice the Christian religion of their mother or his own Islamic religion. This unique religious liberalism of their father set him apart from Muslim leaders of his time. Ademola Adeleke’s brother, Alhaji  Isiaka Adeleke was a governor of the state in the third republic. Another brother, Pastor Deji Adeleke the founder and president of Adeleke University has invested billions into building  in Ede, one of the best universities in Nigeria judging from its excellent buildings, laboratories and library. The second generation of the Adelekes like Davido and another rising singing sensation have made their contribution to the fortunes of the Adelekes. They were therefore not to be easily outspent. One had thought the emergence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as APC flag bearer in the 2023 presidential election would bring some support to Oyetola as it did to the APC gubernatorial candidate in recent Ekiti election, but the brouhaha about Muslim-Muslim ticket has undermined the excitement about the Tinubu factor. The election coming at a time of acute economic crunch, shortage of fuel, cooking gas, and hunger in the land presents a poisoned chalice to all APC candidates at state, federal and presidential levels. President Buhari’s less than sterling performance in the last seven years has become a stumbling block to members of his party. The apparent nonchalant attitude by the president to the electoral fortunes and future of the party does not bode well for members of the party running for electoral offices. The sectionalism, religious  and ethnic parochialism, and the collapse of the economy with the Naira reduced to a useless coloured paper and above all the rampant insecurity which are hallmarks of the federal administration under the APC are not good campaign slogans and whoever is an APC candidate must not run as a follower of Buhari but must distance himself from the non-performing regime at the federal level. All may not be lost if the president can take more interest in the future of the party that brought him to power and do what all incumbent governments do all over the world by ameliorating the conditions of the people in an election year. The APC may yet get lucky if the Russian war in Ukraine winds down, thus ending the high cost of wheat, vegetable oils stored in the ports of Ukraine and imported gas and oil to European refineries where we buy petrol and diesel in the absence of local production.