Ahead of the 2023 general elections, scores of loyalists of former governor Ibikunle Amosun left him for Governor Dapo Abiodun’s camp, pledging their allegiance to the governor. The former loyalists of Senator Amosun who are members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) from Obafemi-Owode Local Government Area of the state, were received by the Senior Special Adviser on Political Affairs to Governor Abiodun, Samson Tunji Egbetokun, on Friday evening. Addressing the politicians, Egbetokun commended them for their decision to join the mainstream of the APC in the state and team up with the governor ahead of the general poll next year. “You have got it right by taking this bold step in the sense that one cannot say because of sympathy you continue to stay with somebody and become useless. You should know what you want, where to get it and how to get it.   Hold FG responsible for violence in Nigeria –Ortom     Two Catholic priests kidnapped in Kaduna     MWUN, others withdraw from national council   “We have a governor who is passionate with inclusiveness, justice and fairness. You can see that even if you join the party today, he takes and recognises you as someone who had been with the party from the inception. Politics is parochial.  It is how to better your life and that of others. You cannot do politics with emotions. I want to welcome you to Dapo Abiodun’s family and since you are not strangers, you will be promptly integrated,” Egbetokun stated. While assuring them that their interest would be taken into consideration as they have taken the best political decision, the SSA noted that they were grassroots politicians with great mobilisation skills, noting “this is the right time for you to have retraced their steps especially now that elections are fast approaching.” Speaking on behalf of the APC members, Femi Akinbile explained that their action was merely retracing their steps back to where they belonged. “Please tell our members in all the wards that we are back. They should not drive us away from meetings; they should absorb us and not treat us as new members or outsiders. We are going nowhere again as we are back 100 percent,” he assured. He lauded Governor Abiodun for his leadership style and efforts at bringing the desired development to every part of the state.ax