THE only way for democracy to thrive, flourish and be constantly deepened in any society is for a critical mass of the population to have inculcated in them attitudes, values, beliefs and orientations that are indispensable to sustaining Abraham Lincoln’s fabled ‘government of the people, by the people and for the people’. At the heart of this representative form of government is a credible, transparent and efficient electoral machinery and process, which conducts elections genuinely reflective of the will of the electorate and thus enjoys the trust and confidence of the generality of the people. Despite the grave socio-economic and security challenges confronting Nigeria today, it cannot be denied that the country has recorded considerable progress in the evolution of her political structures and processes since 1999. One feature of positive political development in this regard is the vastly enhanced institutional autonomy of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as well as the significantly improved integrity of the conduct of elections. The last governorship elections in Edo, Ondo, Anambra and Ekiti states indicate the increasing general acceptability of electoral outcomes and INEC has promised that the governorship polls in Osun on July 16 will be a marked improvement in her performance in Ekiti last month, which has been widely lauded. There is no doubt that the INEC of 2022 is no more the INEC of 23 years ago at the infancy of this dispensation, an electoral umpire that arbitrarily intruded and imposed itself on the electoral process and awarding fictive votes to favored candidates and parties particularly in various elections in 2003 and 2007. That INEC was no more than a parastatal under the suzerainty of the presidency. Another indication of significant strides taken forward, in the country’s political development since 1999, is the bold intervention of the judiciary in adjudicating on and remedying cases of perceived electoral injustice even though some such judgments and reversal of election results have inevitably been controversial. Again, the continuing upgrading and improvements in the application of technology to INEC’s management of elections has helped to ensure that election results are no longer a reflection of the whims and caprices of electoral officials, biometric voter registration and fingerprint technology has rendered ballot box snatching useless while the uploading of election results online electronically from each polling unit immediately after voting has enhanced the transparency and integrity of election results. The steadily increasing integrity and credibility of all aspects of the electoral process, combining with the growing political sophistication and consciousness of the electorate, will with time enhance the probability of competent and capable leaders emerging through the polls. If that happens, such capable leadership will help achieve greater security and enhanced economic prosperity that will reduce considerably the poverty that is at the root of the current menace of vote buying and selling that plagues our elections. But there are still disturbing attitudes, orientations and dispositions among a significant number of members of the political class that could pose a grave danger to the country’s political development and democratic sustainability. Before the presidential primaries of both the All Progressives Congress (APC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP), for instance, there were tendencies in both parties that wanted either a restricted competitive race or no contest at all but rather the imposition of consensus candidates. In the PDP, the key issue was zoning. Key party leaders from the South as well as some governors wanted the field of contestation for the presidential candidacy restricted to the South in conformity with the party’s zoning policy of rotating the presidency between the North and the South.   Sallah: Remain steadfast in prayers for peace – Gombe…     Eid-El-Kabir: Only peace, oneness can ensure stability of…     Eid-el-Kabir: APC chieftain urges Nigerians to reflect on…   Yes, the rotation principle is informed by the imperative of ensuring justice, fairness and equity through balance in the spread and representativeness of critical offices in a complex federation like ours. But then, can the zoning principle be elevated above the constitutionally guaranteed right of all Nigerians of the requisite age and who meet other stipulated criteria to contest elections at all level no matter where they come from? I don’t think so. Above all, we must adhere to democratic tenets at all times. This is why the most critical thing is that the PDP threw its presidential ticket open to all zones of the country thus enabling the choice of its flag bearer through the dynamics of the intra-party democratic process. Despite Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State putting up a strong and impressive showing against the eventual presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, his bid failed, interestingly partly because a not insignificant number of southern delegates did not vote for the fiery governor even as he himself noted after the exercise. Some have pointed out that Sokoto State governor, Mr. Aminu Tambuwal’s decision to step down for Atiku played a critical role in the latter’s victory. But then, that is politics. The zoning principle succumbed to the dynamics of the democratic process within the PDP and all sides must abide by the outcome in good faith as democrats. It is another matter entirely if Atiku following his emergence as the party’s flag bearer has so far handled the process of reconciliation and healing within the party especially the choice of his running mate with the requisite wisdom and dexterity. As for the APC, the dynamics of the democratic process within the party worked out in favour of a southern candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who emerged as its presidential flag bearer, despite a tendency within the party not disguising its preference for the emergence of a northern candidate to run on the party’s platform in next year’s presidential election. It would appear that a good number of the aspirants who paid N100 million for the party’s expression of interest and nomination forms and joined the race did so in the belief that, for one reason or the other, they would be picked as President Muhammadu Buhari’s anointed choice and imposed on the party as consensus candidate thus rendering competitive primaries unnecessary. That the President chose to allow the democratic process to play out fully is to his great credit. No less salutary was the stance of the party’s northern governors who insisted that the ticket be ceded to the south in the interest of fairness and equity and played a key role in the outcome of the primaries. Even then, it is important that the APC also did not restrict the field of contestation for its presidential ticket to the South thus enabling willing aspirants from all parts of the country to participate in the exercise with the winner emerging in a transparent and credible process. Above all, democracy must always be the watchword. Thus, while the intra-party democratic process resulted in the emergence of a northerner in the PDP, the same process led to a southern presidential candidate in the APC. In picking their candidates, the parties were understandably concerned with maximizing their electoral strengths at the polls. Speaking within the context of democratic profession and practice, it is difficult to situate the clamorous calls in some quarters for the zoning of the presidency to the South-East because the zone has not produced a President since 1999. But a Nigerian President of Igbo extraction can only emerge through the dynamics of the democratic process. Such a candidate must join and work hard within parties to build alliances, friendships and political relationships across the country.  He or she can surely not campaign successfully solely on the basis of being Igbo. It will not fly. Rather, an Igbo candidate must campaign first and foremost on his or her merit, competence and qualification for the job while also falling back on a wide network of personal and political relationships nationwide for support. The leading Igbo Presidential Candidate in the 2023 presidential race is Mr. Peter Obi, who defected to the Labour Party from the PDP. To his credit, Mr. Peter Obi, has been campaigning on what he considers as his capability for the job of leading Nigeria even though some of his claimed achievements in the past, especially as two-term governor of Anambra State, have been severally challenged. There is the perception that his statistics are frequently inaccurate and claims of his accomplishments exaggerated. Even then, the important thing is that he is not asking for votes necessarily because he is Igbo. Unfortunately, though, the way many of his fervent supporters are carrying on may cast Obi as a sectional rather than a national candidate and this may hurt him in a nationwide election. Does the LP have the structures to enable Obi make an effective impact in a nationwide election and with the election less than eight months away? It is doubtful. Had the attempted merger between the Labour Party and Rabiu Kwankwaso’s New Nigeria Democratic Party (NNDP) worked out, it would have been a potentially formidable party because Kwankwaso is no pushover in Kano and some other parts of the North West. This column foresees a vibrant and exciting campaign particularly between Atiku and Tinubu, the frontline candidates, in the months ahead. They have both been active on Nigeria’s political and economic terrain over the last three decades. It is difficult seeing litigations against the two, obviously designed to distract and thwart their ambitions, flying since these are issues already pronounced on judicially in the past.  It should be a campaign focused on issues, ideas and programmes, not abuse, personal attacks, mudslinging and insults.