Lafarge Africa Plc is empowering youths of its host communities through technical skill acquisition aimed at making the youths socially and economically successful. Community leaders and members of Mfamosing and adjoining communities in Cross River State have expressed delight at Lafarge Africa’s skills acquisition and empowerment programme, noting that the corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative was having positive impact. One of the beneficiaries, Mrs. Ruth Peter, a mother of two from EkongAnaku community said Lafarge sent her on training in fashion design for one year and after that, gave her starter packs including a sewing machine. “I saved the stipend they were giving me during my one-year training from October 2020 to October 2021 to rent this shop. Since I started sewing, I have bought two additional machines from the money I made from sewing. When we were undergoing the training, we were advised to ensure we train others when we graduate. These two girls here are undergoing training under me for free. As the company trained me for free, I am also training them for free,” Peter said. Similarly, Kashang Obiri, also from EkongAnaku community who is currently studying Computer Science at the University of Cross River State (UNICROSS), said that he obtained training in welding and fabrication and got starter packs at the end of his training. “My training lasted for one year and six months. I can apply the knowledge I gathered during the training anywhere in the world. I am very grateful to Lafarge for sponsoring me for the training. I have been using the skill I learnt to support myself in school,” Obiri said. 16-year-old Favour Odok from Kasuk Community in Calabar Municipal Local Government Area of the state threads in an uncommon terrain for older women, let alone of girls of her age. Odok is undergoing training in mechanical engineering where she is being taught how to fabricate automobile parts as well as fix haulage trucks that need repair. “I specialize in the fabrication of carburetors and injectors of haulage trucks. Very soon I will go across the road to fix one of the trucks,” Odok said. It is a similar positive story from the Mfamosing community in Akamkpa Local Government Area where 21-year-old Miss Gift Ekun said she was a beneficiary of Lafarge Africa’s skills empowerment programme.   Buhari celebrates Amusan, Brume over World Athletics feats     FCT taskforce begins massive demolition of…     Property destroyed as fire razes two-storey in Onitsha   “I went through Electrical Engineering training. I am through with it, and I have been given admission to study the same Electrical Engineering at the University of Cross River State, UNICROSS. I thank Lafarge because what they taught helped me to prepare for university education. May God bless Lafarge,” Ekun said. Another beneficiary, Edwin Etta, from Mboby community, Akampka LGA said that through the company’s empowerment scheme, he benefited immensely from the training in block-molding and bricks making. “Since last year, after I finished training, my life has improved, and I am very happy now. I even chose where to work because what I learnt from the Lafarge training can hardly be given to you anywhere else,” Etta said. Joseph Okon from Essien Town, in Calabar municipality, said since he completed his training in welding and fabrication last year his financial situation has improved. “ I remain grateful to Lafarge because I no longer depend on my parents for money. Since I am still working in the shop where I was trained, I have been able to save some money, and with the starter pack given to me by the company, I will set up my shop soon. I also support my younger ones, and my mother who is a trader. My mother keeps praying for all the good things to happen to Lafarge,” Okon said. Community Relations Committee Chairman for Mboby community in Akampka LGA and the 17 communities that make up the Lafarge Host Communities, Ntufam Bassey commended Lafarge for the support it has been rendering to the communities. “In terms of human capacity development, the building solutions company stands head and shoulders above many companies operating in the host communities,” Bassey said. Also appreciating the support of the company in the state, Mr. Akpa Agbor, Director of Environmental Quality Control, Cross River State Ministry of Environment said the people and government of the state sincerely appreciated the positive impact of Lafarge Africa through the implementation of its CSR programmes. “These gestures have gone a long way to touch lives in the host communities in particular and the state at large,” Agbor said. Mr. Benedict Okache, Director of Information and Orientation, Cross Rivers State Ministry of Information, Mr Benedict Okache noted that Lafarge Africa’s Mfamosing plant has over the years sustained a robust CSR programme that has been impacting positively on the socio-economic life of host community members.