UNTIL the two leading political parties fully settle the problems besetting their presidential tickets, any analysis on the subject will at best be tentative. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has already nailed their colours to the mast. They have opted for a Muslim-Christian ticket but violated the unwritten agreement to rotate the presidency between the North and South. They leave the South and other interest groups to determine what weight to attach to the mixed ticket and what weight to attach to the violation of the rotation understanding. The weight will, therefore, be assigned by the South, and it will be left to them to decide where to place the requisite emphasis. The South is predominantly Christian, and the choice they face is anything but simple. If they insist the issue of Muslim-Christian ticket is more germane to their existence, they will in effect be winking approvingly at the PDP candidate’s effrontery in securing the ticket for the North and hence giving the region at least a 50 percent chance of retaining power after Muhammadu Buhari’s eight years in office. But if they stress their preference for rotation more than anything else, they will be serving notice to the PDP that on election day, the party’s goose could be cooked. As far as 2023 is concerned, the North is unlikely to face any suffocating dilemma as the South. Either way, and discounting the candidacy of Labour Party’s Peter Obi, they have Muslims as the presidential candidates of the two leading parties. So, the dilemma is solely the South’s to manage. Given the cacophony of threats and noises in the South, they may not be doing very well in handling the dilemma at the moment. But they will have to streamline their options and do a brilliant trade-off if they are not to lose both ways in 2023. The PDP is clear which direction it is heading. With a northern presidential candidate, they want power retained in the North, for the vice presidential position is just a little better than sinecure. On the other hand, though the All Progressives Congress (APC) is yet to present its full public face, it has given enough indication that it will go with a Muslim-Muslim ticket. The North has no illusion the APC would come to that pass; but the South had hoped that the awkward reality of a same-faith ticket confronting their predominantly Christian region would turn out to be nothing more than a boondoggle. It didn’t seem obvious when the APC concluded its presidential primary last month that the party would contemplate same-faith ticket. The possibility existed; but it was shrouded in mist. Now it has become clear, hence the choice before the South to determine whether it wants power retained in the North, with all the attendant galling implications, or for power to rotate South with the consequent discomfort of having to constantly wince at the reality of a Muslim-Muslim presidency. Having spent seven vexatious years under the Muhammadu Buhari presidency enduring probably the most pernicious form of religious extremism seemingly connived at by a complicit administration, southerners may be appalled to welcome a repeat. Yet, the last seven years have been supervised by a Muslim-Christian ticket. Trying to escape or resolve this dilemma, many southern faith leaders have begun to gesture in the direction of Mr Obi of the Labour Party. He is a southerner, thus satisfying their cry for power shift. He is Christian and looking good on the hustings, thus also satisfying the puritan longings of a disproportionate number of Christian leaders. And above all, he is Nigerian, they chorused, as if there was any doubt. Southern faith leaders have a worrisome way of trying to resolve dilemmas. But apart from being incurably romantic about Nigerian politics, they seem naïve about the consequences of the choices they are about to cavalierly make. Whatever support they give Mr Obi and whatever campaigns they run against a Muslim-Muslim APC ticket will neither give victory to the Labour Party nor satisfy their more important desire to ensure power rotation especially in the face of the horrendous existential struggle enacted by rampaging herdsmen and other militant ethnic irredentists sequestering in their forests. If they do not begin to see 2023 presidential poll in the light of securing the lesser of two ‘evils’, chances are that they could make a bad choice and finish worse off, if not expose themselves to far more gloomy scenarios. If power is retained in the North in 2023, there will be no incentive in the near future to rotate it to the South. It is shocking that regional and faith leaders miss the golden opportunity of having on the APC ticket a most engaging secularist presenting himself for election into the presidency. The APC presidential candidate Bola Ahmed Tinubu is Muslim, but he is not a proselytiser, and is completely inured to the usage of religion as usufruct rights, and opposed to the pervasive exceptionalism of both Islam and Christianity. Mr Obi not only cocks a snook at progressivism, he is also ambivalent about secularism. He is not averse to exploiting Catholicism to the hilt. So far, he also seems untouched and unfazed by any form of ideological trapping, including the tamest form of pragmatism. Alhaji Atiku poses as a liberal and cosmopolitan Nigerian. He is nothing of such, regardless of the connubial ecology he flaunts in the public face. His youth and adolescence were shaped by abject surrender to religion and a deep fear of the militant power of religion. His vacillation in the face of the public lynching in May of Deborah Samuel, a Sokoto College of Education student, reveals a politician engaged in ceaseless appeasement. Like Mr Obi, and all past presidents, he will do little or nothing to gradually shift Nigeria away from the corrosive influence and stranglehold of religion. At the moment, there is nothing to show that the highly emotive faith leaders of the South have the capacity to make a realistic choice between the two leading parties. Mercifully, the campaigns are still a few months away, and they give perhaps enough time for passions to cool. Meanwhile, graduating from the hysteria of denouncing same-faith ticket, faith leaders have crept into the field of militant religious politics, introducing voter cards almost as an article of faith in worship centres. They suggest that they can mobilise their faiths against same-faith ticket, and possibly get their members, who are sometimes die-hard members of opposing political parties, to go along. It is hard to see this happening without dire consequences for faith leaders and religious establishments. To introduce permanent voter card possession into religious worship is another form of corruption of religion of the same severity as other forms of politicisation of religion. It will be counterproductive. Put simply, the South faces three choices: a Peter Obi candidacy that is certain to perform only a spoiler role (see article below), and is incapable of winning the election no matter the euphoric militancy and celebration of his supporters on social media; an Atiku/Ifeanyi Okowa candidacy that will keep power in the North possibly for another eight years should the PDP win; and a Tinubu presidency that stands a more than average chance of being truly secularist. Many southerners, particularly faith leaders, see these choices as unpalatable. Notwithstanding, they will have to choose one. When the battle is finally joined in the months to come, and the real running mates are revealed, it will become clear whether reality can reconcile with desire or not. The regnant opinion in the North is that for the sake of unity and stability power should rotate South; but it remains to be seen whether the cacophonous view of politics in the South can be juxtaposed with the current agreeable tune from the North. In 1993, that tune sounded sonorous on distant peaks, indicating the possibility of a country where neither religion nor tribe mattered much. Nigeria flunked that opportunity. Now, another chance offers itself to emplace a secularist country where religious dervishes are unwelcome in politics. Sadly, it does not seem, at least today, that the country and its faith leaders recognise this amazing opportunity to reset Nigeria.      Abia Commissioner of Police Presents N21m Cheques To…     NDDC dedicates African Union’s award to Buhari     PAP confirms canceling firm’s contracts over breach   THE brethren who market the Peter Obi candidacy to the rest of Nigeria swear by his frugality, honesty and patriotism. They are free to sell their product with all the saccharine posts they can project on social and traditional media. Unfortunately they are not content simply marketing him with all the doggedness they can muster. No, they insist everyone must buy their product. In the months ahead, Nigerians will, therefore, have to contend with the bullying tactics of the Obi crowd, shocked that the ‘new age’ robe the campaigners dress their candidate violently contradicts the reasons they claim make the old age politics of contemporary politicians repulsive. The Obi campaign, which has prematurely taken off in full blast, will of course implode whether the campaigners like it or not. The reasons are not far-fetched. Despite the optimism of the campaigners, and despite their jumping the gun, not to mention their insolence and irreverence, they are building castles in the air, castles without foundation. They seem to give the impression that if their product is not bought, it is either sceptics are idiots or charlatans who must be punished with a revolution, youth-led revolution, that is. Again they assume that their new age fantasies have caught on everywhere, North and South, and that their rolling thunder of clean, honest, fervent and futuristic politics was pealing irresistibly in every nook and cranny of Nigeria. But the Obi movement, assuming that is what it is, is nothing but tilting at windmills. The Obi attraction is of course refreshingly different, despite being corrupted by campaigners. However, it is in fact a showy article that is at bottom full of ostentation but empty of substance. As indicated in this place weeks ago, the Obi movement is incomparable with France’s Emmanuel Macron’ En Marche, which upended the old order. France is homogenous; Nigeria is not. In the end, what will matter is what structures have been built by the candidate, regardless of youthful scoffing of the desirability or even indispensability of structures, and what networks, friendships and connections have been erected across the country. No one can become president without extending series of handshakes across regions. The candidate must be trusted by a significant critical mass to stand any chance of winning the presidency. For a country wracked by mistrust, guilt and alienation, it would be a pipe dream to think social media can catapult anyone into office. The suspicion is that Mr Obi, unlike his converts and followers, does not really think he can win the presidency now or even anytime soon. But his followers, inundated with the gleeful optimism of youth and the dreamy expectations that temper the frustrations of decades, actually expect a win. The obstacles that render such conjurations unrealistic do not dissuade the campaigners. Good for them. When the real campaigns begin finally, and backdoor alliances and trade-offs have been completed and signed and sealed and waiting to be delivered, it will become obvious how tough, if not impracticable, it is to overthrow the conservative and regional machines that locked politics in a vice-like grip and delivered votes in their millions in years past. Unfortunately, Mr Obi’s campaigners and followers have managed by their lack of coordination and dexterity to foster segregation in the polity. They sneer at conservatives, mock advanced age, and scoff at cultural differences. The candidate himself has kept his message simple, voicing nothing complicated about modern economy beyond buying and selling, and he has refrained from provoking the high and mighty, the panjandrums of Nigerian politics whose blood his followers bay for. But it is a matter of time before the impressionable candidate catches up with the message(s) of his followers, notwithstanding his purest intuitions telling him he is being led willy-nilly to Golgotha. He may soon begin suspecting that the scarecrows he has let loose on social media have got the country petrified. He may even begin to trust his intuitions which have led him to see merit in constructing an edifice from the roof. However, his followers may be iconoclastic; he is not, as his years in politics and trading show. He and his crowd see merit in skewering everyone who disagrees with their offensive manners. But their intimidation will not deter the opposition he is bound to encounter soon once the battle for 2023 is fully joined. Some analysts fear he may galvanise a momentum such as this country has never seen, a movement that could catapult him into office. Nonsense. He will make waves, but those waves will be smothered by the countervailing tide of generations of Nigerians whose deliberate approach to politics leads them into the pawky caution that has served them well over the decades and helped them avoid the suicidal plunge reckless and regicidal youths seem enamoured of.   AS the flurry of statements recently issued by presidential spokesmen Femi Adesina and Garba Shehu indicates, President Muhammadu Buhari appears determined to evade being prematurely tagged a lame-duck president. Strictly speaking, he won’t become lame duck until well into early next year. But given just how easily he had become unresponsive to the terrifying crises dogging the nation and his presidency, not to mention the unduly early election of presidential candidates who deflect attention to themselves by their activities and pronouncements, Nigerians feel they lose nothing by shifting their gaze from the president. But just as the lame-duck phenomenon was about to develop premature roots and entangle the president, Mr Shehu issued a  revisionist statement to the press controversially proclaiming the president’s democratic credentials as evidenced by his ‘salutary’ role in the APC presidential primary. In addition, with exquisite sophistry that stretches dubiety to its elastic limit, he whitewashes the idea of a cabal suffocating the presidency. Nigerians were of course incredulous. But that was because they failed to see the statement as a philosophical sleight of hand. The furore was yet to die down when Mr Adesina also assailed Nigerians with the Bloomberg News interview with the president. In the interview, the president waxed coherent against naysayers and painted glorious pictures of Nigeria as economic and social El Dorado. Delirious with joy over the wide reception that greeted his earlier statement, Mr Shehu talked up another storm from the president. President Buhari, he moaned, had set his face against religious fanatics baiting Nigeria into disaster. Yes, you heard him right, the same religious excesses the administration spent years unsure how to respond to. So, what next from the considerably fecund Mr Adesina? Let the spokesmen get to it. Nigerians, now bewitched by the religion of presidential and governorship running mates, won’t be tired of the presidential red herrings. But while they are engaged in their presidential bombasts, could they please prevail on the president to do something, other than junketing around the globe, about the killings laying the country waste, the roguery of the power generation and distribution companies, and the prehensile and unconscionable vermin who swarm the cabinet, ministries and other public agencies?