President Muhammadu Buhari has celebrated winner of the women’s 100m hurdles gold at the World Athletics Championship 2022, Tobi Amusan, thanking her for promoting Nigeria’s image on world stage. Amusan, on Sunday, in Oregon, USA, became the first Nigerian to win a gold medal as she  powered over the line at Hayward Field in 12.06sec at the final of the women’s 100m hurdles. Amusan  had obliterated the world record in an astonishing semi-final where she clocked 12.12sec. Also, the President congratulated another Nigerian star at the events, Ese Brume, who won the silver medal in the women’s long jump event. In  a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the President said the achievements of the stars would encourage upcoming athletes to aspire higher.   Appeal Court seeks support over post- 2023 elections…     UPDATED: Buhari seeks Justice Ariwoola’s confirmation…     Interstate transporters begin 25 percent fare increase Aug…   “President Muhammadu Buhari expresses heartfelt congratulations to Tobi Amusan for winning the women’s 100m hurdles gold for Nigeria at the World Athletics Championship 2022, setting a new world record in the semifinals of the athletic event and becoming the first Nigerian to win a World Championship. “The President joins millions of Nigerians in celebrating this outstanding feat by a compatriot and two-time African Games champion, who in one night stunned the athletics world with her superlative and stellar performance. “The President thanks the track superstar for making the Nigerian national anthem resonate again from the international podium, leaving the nation with the excitement and unforgettable memories of tears of joy and triumph; hope and victory; incredulity and belief. “President Buhari says the legendary career and achievements of the golden girl will continue to inspire the upcoming generations of Nigerian athletes to achieve spectacular success.” He added: “The President also commends Ese Brume for representing Nigeria with honour and pride, winning silver medal in the Women’s long jump event. “The President lauds Team Nigeria for displaying courage, integrity and good sportsmanship at the world stage, proving that with hard work and determination, success is achievable,” the statement said.