Families of the 63 passengers abducted from the AK-9 Abuja-Kaduna train on March 28 have threatened to hold a rally against the government over its failure to rescue the victims from their abductors. By Tuesday, the abductees would have spent 100 days in the captivity of the terrorists. The affected families threatened to hold the protest on major streets and occupy key government facilities in Abuja and Kaduna. The family members of the abductees, who addressed reporters yesterday in Kaduna, said they were worried about the harrowing experience their loved ones would have passed through in the captivity of the terrorists. They expressed worry about reports of snake bites and gunshot injuries said to have been sustained by the abductees in the past three months. Speaking on behalf of the affected families, Dr. Abdulaziz Atta, whose aged mother and sister are in the terrorists’ captivity, said members of the victims’ families would occupy public facilities until their loved ones are rescued. Atta said: “We read from the media that one of our loved ones, Al-Amin, was shot and that it was an accidental discharge by one of the non-state actors guarding our loved ones. But the key question now is the health of the person that has gunshot wounds. “There are no antibiotics; nobody to remove the bullets from his body. Just imagine the current situation he would be in the bush. He needs urgent support. If he is not brought out of the bush, we may lose him. “To be fair, we are seeing some of the outcomes of the government’s efforts. We have seen 11 of our loved ones that have been released. From the statement that was released by Garba Shehu on behalf of the President, he made it clear that their children were released to them for us to have our loved ones. We heard it from the highest authority. “We know that the government is working on it. They are working on it, but what we are demanding is that they should hasten their release. Every single moment they spend in the bush is dangerous.   Prioritising people     Was it a warning shot?     Dissociative identity disorder   “The agents of government that are involved in this negotiation need to do more. What we want simply is that our loved ones should be out. We have kids, as you have heard earlier on, as young as three years old. From the feedback we had, these kids are unattended to. We have women who have been injured. We have aged women and men. Those people should be brought out. “By next week Tuesday, which is going to be 100 days that they have been in captive, we are planning to do a physical protest. We will be having sitings in key government facilities. We plan to sit there till our loved ones are out. “So, we are changing our strategies. We will change our strategies from the media briefing. The media have been excellent to us. But now, we are going to move out physically for people to see us on the streets,” he said. Another relative of an affected family, Hajia Fatima Ciroma said the family members of the abductees have been living in fear in the past 94 days. She noted that the abductees have not been deprived of sleep, wearing the same clothes, staying under the scorching sun and rain, and exposed to all sorts of hazards. “The emotional, psychological, mental, and physical torture arising from these conditions can only be imagined,” Ciroma said. She added: “We read in the media that one of the abductees was shot by the non-state actors holding our loved ones in captivity. Unfortunately, this abductee is left unattended to. If the gunshot wound is not treated, he may lose his life. “Among other abducted passengers are children, some as young as three years; women, including an 85-year-old great grandmother, and others. Some of these victims have health challenges that require daily medications, which they have had no access to in the last 94 harrowing days.” “While some families have their breadwinners in captivity, others have their wives, mothers, sisters, brothers, uncles and aunts held down in the forest. “This sad event has dramatically disrupted the conditions of the affected families. Children are left to cry every day with the only question being when mummy is coming back and when daddy is coming back home. What a sorry state!”