Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, has said the Duchess International Hospital, Ikeja, owned by the Reddington Hospital Group, which carried out leg surgery on Vice President Yemi Osinbajo recently, is an exemplary model of the Federal Government’s intervention through the CBN in providing world-class health facility in the country. This would discourage medical tourism by affluent Nigerians who prefer to seek medical acre abroad, he added. Emefiele made this statement at the briefing following the recent Monetary Policy Committee meeting held in Lagos. While responding to questions from the media on the CBN intervention funds in healthcare, the CBN Governor used the Reddington Hospital and Duchess International Hospital as examples of where the apex bank has supported healthcare institutions in building local capacity towards the reversal of medical tourism which costs Nigeria billions of dollars yearly. He thanked the Vice President for choosing to have his surgery done in Nigeria, setting an exemplary example. This is a measure of confidence the VP reposed in our healthcare system.   Umami Seasoning Day: Experts reaffirm Ajinomoto’s safety     Why prolonged ‘sitting is new smoking’     AbdulRazaq launches fresh primary healthcare initiative   Reacting to the CBN Governor’s statement, the Group Medical Director of Reddington Hospital, Dr Olutunde Lalude, explained that the Reddington Healthcare Group established the Duchess International Hospital, Ikeja as a unique brand to promote access to affordable world-class healthcare for all Nigerians with its strategic location just 10 minutes’ drive from the Lagos airport and less than 90 minutes by air from Abuja and state capitals. In demonstrating the hospital’s affordability, Lalude emphasised that it costs N5000 only for a patient to register and see a doctor at Duchess International Hospital. “This has been made possible due to the impact of the CBN intervention fund in establishing the hospital,” he said. He thank the CBN Governor and Access Bank Plc “for their support in building our local capacity and transforming our healthcare institutions.”