Let’s start with your background. How has it been? I attended secondary school at Kings College, Lagos and I majored in Biology at the University of Abuja. I am the founder of Joik and Chog(J&C). Joik and Chog Limited is a company that offers services in fashion, tech, and management consultancy. The fashion arm specialises in urban clothing, we brand outfits for corporate clients like banks, beverage companies, schools, and individuals who need customised clothing. I am proficient in SQL – Structured Query Language, HTML – Hyper Text Markup Language, CSS – Cascading Styling Sheet. I have also taken several courses on Management Proficiency, General Management and Strategy; Strategic Planning and Implementation at the International School of Management; Project Management; Health, Safety and Environment. I also conduct training at the International School of Management in Basic and Intermediate Excel and Health Safety and Environment. I am also a co-founder of Drik. Drik is a fashion brand. What’s the fashion brand Joik &Chog all about? Joik is a portmanteau of my father’s first and middle names and Chog is a portmanteau of my first and middle name. When I was a teenager, my father registered a company called Joik Enterprises Limited. I was inspired by his business acumen, so I am honouring his legacy through my own business name. J&C is an urban fashion brand that specializes in casual outfits like jacks, shirts, joggers, sweatshirts. Our watchword is quality and customer satisfaction. We get the best international suppliers who furnish us with the choicest quality fabrics. We also source locally based on need. We are detailed in our production processes, in terms of sewing and finishing. Our designs are also unmatched. We work with the best designers to translate our client’s idea for their wear into a perfection they never imagined. What’s your vision for Joik & Chog? I want J&C to be an international brand that provides solutions to businesses. I want the company to be present on all continents of the world and be headquartered in the U.S and Canada. I want the tech division to be truly global due to the evolving nature of our world. The goal is for J&C to be a household name that serves a global clientele. What’s the origin of your business inspiration? My father was my first inspiration for business. Then in school, I facilitated business conferences as a Director of Exchange for my Local Committee at AIESEC Abuja, an international exchange organization run by students. At AIESEC, I aided the exchange of the highest number of students from Brazil, China, Japan to work with companies and on AIESEC projects on health awareness in Nigeria. How did you venture into tech?   ‘Nigeria losing $450m to offshore data storage’     Wine Nation woos wine lovers with sit-in-bar     ‘We have to restructure agriculture to win’   In primary school, my teachers used to say I had the ‘brain’ of a computer because I excelled at science subjects. After my secondary school, I attended computer training programmes, and I emerged as the best student at the institute. While in university, I realized that technology was the future. I consulted the experts at NIIT on the most challenging tech course. They told me it was Oracle and I decided to take it. I took the course simultaneously with my undergraduate studies and I eventually became a certified Oracle associate in 2015, and an oracle certified professional in 2018. I saw that data is the foundation of any tech application because data must be stored through technology. This helped me understand the architecture and infrastructure of the internet. I began to look at the need for businesses to be visible online. I began to think of ways to enhance business operations. My motivation for business was technology-focused, using technology to facilitate business effectiveness. How would you describe yourself? I am very resourceful and resilient. I love challenges. With research, I can get anything done. I went the extra mile and in fact, received the Extra mile Award at United Bank for Africa (UBA) in 2018. I am also a risk taker. What has been your business lesson in business? My biggest business lesson is to document and sign business contracts regardless of the relationship you have with the person. What work experience do you have? I am the founder of Datastacks. It’s a tech brand that specializes in data-based applications, building websites, and providing management consultancy. We help scale businesses where they are lagging. I Co-Founded Drik, a Nigerian-based fashion brand.in 2018. That was the year we registered the business. I also worked at United Bank for Africa as a Virtual Banking Card Specialist. I was a technical support for virtual banking products like internet banking, mobile banking. I also handled POS settlements and Charge Back, merchant reconciliation and settlement. Before I left the bank, I rose to the position of a management information system administrator (MIS). In 2015, I joined the Waste Management Society of Nigeria (WAMASON) as a Business Development Officer. WAMASON is an NGO that promotes professional waste management practices in Nigeria. I developed, managed, implemented and marketed their strategy for membership development. Do you have any volunteering experience? Yes, I do. I started volunteering from my days at the University of Abuja where I joined AIESEC. Currently, I am the Director, Digital Marketing & Communications at the International Climate Change Development Initiative. I am also the Director of Volunteer Engagement at the International Initiative for The Advancement of SDGs in Africa.