Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has pledged support for the 15th Headies Awards. Sanwo-Olu, in an interview with HipTv, revealed the State is excited about working with the prestigious music award. The Governor was full of positive remarks for the platform which recognises and celebrates African music stars. According to the Governor, the Headies Awards which will hold at Cobb Energy Performing Arts Centre in Atlanta, Georgia, United States on September 4, would see ‘the state on ground to first sell Nigeria as a country then Lagos as a music capital and entertainment capital of our country.’ He noted as far as Lagos State is concerned, the awards show is viewed ‘as an exportation of our creative industry and also also our own foreign direct investment in America’. Speaking about the awards show, Sanwo-Olu said: “Headies has been the rallying point, the crème de la crème. The high point of music awards, not only in Nigeria but I think in Africa. “It has earned its credibility. Headies is a name that has stayed in the industry, that all industry players always aspire to be a winner.   Drag anyone on Apostle Suleiman’s alleged s3x list – Yul…     Doctors postpone Eedris Abdulkareem’s kidney transplant     Blessing CEO laments not making Apostle Suleiman’s alleged…   “The fact that you were there last year, you’ll also want to try and won it again the other year. “And for me being a watcher of all that, it has really grown in depth, size and acceptability.” On the intended collaboration, he stated: “So indeed, we are very excited. In the entertainment industry, Headies stands out and that’s why we feel very proud to be working with them. “Lagos is the center piece for music, not only in Nigeria but in Africa. Now we want to be a global player in the world stage, there’s no better place to go in America than Atlanta where talents are being discovered. “As a governor, we are very excited with that initiative and we are buying into it fully. We will be supporting them. “We will also be on ground to first sell Nigeria as a country. We’ll sell Lagos as a music capital and entertainment capital of our country. And also use that to connect with our huge disapora audience in America. So, it’ll be a win-win for everyone. “It’ll be a win for Lagos State government, for Headies and also for our international audience. They will be able to see, feel, touch and appreciate all of our musicians at the highest level. “For us as a government, we see it as an exportation of our creative industry. This is also our own foreign direct investment in America. “So, we are reversing it. We are exporting talents, knowledge and skills.”