Calvin Bassey has been made to wait for his Ajax debut after work permit issues following his bumper transfer from Rangers. Bassey penned a five-year-deal with the Amsterdam club, leaving Rangers for a record breaking fee of an additional £19.5million, which could raise to just under £23million should he impress in the Eredivisie and Champions League, but he has not yet been cleared to play for his new side. The Nigeria international has yet to pull on the famous red and white kit in pre-season after his expected debut against Shakhtar Donetsk on Tuesday was put on hold. The 22-year-old now faces a sweat to see whether he will make the traditional curtain raiser of the Dutch season on Saturday against PSV Eindhoven in the Johan Cruyff Shield as he looks to ramp up his fitness for the new campaign. Ajax boss Alfred Schreuder vented on the ongoing issues to Dutch outlet Voetbal International, stating: “Of course that’s annoying. “We don’t know when it will be cleared. Bassey is a boy who will immediately give us specific qualities. “He may not come from the biggest league, but he has played in the Europa League Final. He has made very fast steps from his apprenticeship at Leicester.   Joshua’s,Usyk rematch sets new pay-per-view record      C’wealth Games : Ecstasy as Birmingham 2022 begins today     Team Nigeria dazzles with Buga at welcome party   “We think he can get even better and can be used immediately. But of course, we have a big squad now and he will have to fight for his pace like everyone.” Yet Ajax technical director Gerry Hamstra has affirmed his belief in Bassey to succeed at Amsterdam. Bassey became Ajax’s second most expensive signing after his €23 million move from Rangers in July. He impressed in Rangers colours last season, but the world took notice after his man-of-the-match performance in the Europa League final against Eintracht Frankfurt. Chelsea and Bayern Munich were touted as possible destinations for the 22-year-old, but he opted for a move to Ajax. The Godenzonen lost their star defender Lisandro Martinez to Manchester United, prompting them to pay top dollar Bassey as a replacement.