The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has published 12 political parties that nominated candidates for the 2023 governorship race in Ebonyi State. The Commission also published 16 political parties that would participate in the race for the 24 House of Assembly positions in the State. After months of uncertainty, the name of Speaker Francis Nwifuru was published as the governorship candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC). Also, Lagos based business man, Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii, who has been having a running battle with Senator Obinna Ọgba was listed as the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) though the matter is still in court A Professor of Geo-physics, Bernard Odoh was listed by the Commission as the candidate of the Progressive Grand Alliance(APGA). Nwifuru and Odii had faced stiff challenge to their candidature as separate/parallel primaries by factions of their parties produced two other candidates laying claim to the position. A senator representing, Ebonyi Central Senate zone, Obinna Ọgba is in court with Ọdịi for the governorship ticket of PDP after he emerged in a second primary conducted by the PDP.   Fresh trouble for Tambuwal, Bala, others as court axes Umahi     2023: Buhari hails APC leaders over choice of candidates     Abubakar Aliyu and the never-ending power grid collapse   Former Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) Chairman, Elias Mbam also emerged in a parallel primary conducted by a faction of the APC in the State in May. The Resident Electoral Commissioner in Ebonyi State, Dr Chukwuemeka Joseph Chukwu, told Journalists that the pasting of the list of candidates at INEC LGAs offices across the State was in line with section 29(3) of the Electoral Act 2022, and schedule of activities of the Commission. He listed the names of the political parties that nominated governorship candidates in Ebonyi to include: AA, ADC, ADP, APC, APGA, APM, APP, LP, NNPP, NRM, PDP and YPP. The INEC boss also listed the 16 political parties that nominated candidates for Ebonyi State House of Assembly seats as follows: AA (24 candidates), ADC (23 Candidates), ADP ( 24 Candidates), APC (24 Candidates), APGA (24 Candidates), APM (3 Candidates), APP (4 Candidates),BP (1 Candidate), LP (24 Candidates), NNPP (24 Candidates), NRM (24 Candidates), PDP (24 Candidates), PRP (1 Candidate), PSDP (6 Candidates), YPP (Candidate) and ZLP (14 Candidates). Mr Chukwu further explained that a total of 245 State House of Assembly candidates would participate in the 2023 general elections in Ebonyi State. Speaking on the on the on-going voters registration, the Resident Electoral Commissioner, enjoined eligible residents of Ebonyi State yet to register or update their voter registration to use the window period to do so, as there might not be any further extension after the July, 31, 2022, deadline. Mr Chukwu also disclosed that online voters registration in Ebonyi State tentatively stood at 274, 376, while complete registration stood at 336,412 as at 18th July, 2022, pending when the final number of registration voters would be published by the Commission. “Collection of Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) is on-going at the various INEC LGA Offices in Ebonyi State. Those who are yet to collect theirs are equally advised to visit our LGA offices where they registered to collect theirs personally. Note once again, there is no collection by proxy,” the REC stressed.