Serena Williams looked to be in top shape at 40-year-old as she continues to work out hard for her career with no signs of slowing down. To hone this home, the mother of one, made the rare move of showing off her toned tummy in social media photos recently, obviously telling whoever cares to know that she’s fit and still in the game. This comes after reports that she is not ready to retire. ‘I think every tennis player thinks about the R-word [retirement] as soon as they hit five years because tennis is so intense, it’s literally 11 months out of the year,’ Williams told Bloomberg TV earlier this year. ‘But I don’t know. I’m living for the day and I always tell people, “I’m not planning for tomorrow, only in business, and when it comes to tennis, I’m planning just for today.”‘ In the new set of images, the athlete looked ready for the court in a bra top and matching legging in a hushed coral tone. Her big diamond ring from her husband, Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian, sparkled. The 23-time Grand Slam champion also took to Instagram to show off her new office building.   Aribo, Bassey, Iwobi return to London cage     Danny Drinkwater: My Chelsea nightmare     ALEX IWOBI: I want to win trophies with Everton   Dailymail.co.uk showed her wearing a white tank top and pink slacks as she stood in front of a massive stone sign that read Serena. In her caption, she said, ‘Building anyone?’ The Serena Williams Building in Oregon was at the Nike World Headquarters. It is a one-million-square-foot center and has 140,000 square feet of showrooms and work areas. And there is a theatre named after her daughter Olympia that seats over 100 people. ‘The whole building takes your breath away,’ the star said in a press release. ‘Every element, everywhere you go, is an opportunity to be inspired. I hope this building encourages people to bring out the best of themselves and to dream bigger than they thought possible.’ ‘Architecture has long been a creative catalyst for Nike,’ Chief Design Officer John Hoke said. ‘A manifestation of form and function following footprint, this building embodies Serena’s legacy as a force for positive change. It is the art to the LeBron James Innovation Center’s science, allowing us to know and serve athletes like never before.’