One synonymous attribute of the BBNaija seasons is the Saturday night party. The level one and level two housemates of the BBNaija Level Up season had been planning for their first Saturday party sinnce their individual house and pool parties. At exactly 9 pm, the housemates were ushered into the spacious party room where DJ4kerty was already waiting to receive them with melodious tunes and vibes. Here are some of the gist of what went down at the first Saturday party: DJ4kerty is a vibe DJ4kerty promised the housemates and viewers a swell time and indeed, a swell time was what the housemates and viewers had at the party. The popular disc jockey kept dishing out melodious tunes, which the housemates matched with their swaying and wriggling on the dance floor. They were so thrilled that there was no dull moment in the three hours which the party lasted. Eloswag kisses Phyna The first and current Head Of House, Eloswag sure knows how to rock a party. From the level one pool party to the Saturday night party, Eloswag has been nothing short of a vibe. For the Saturday party, Eloswag took his luck a bit further after Phyna decided to shoot her shot with him.   Tiwa Savage reveals man behind ‘Somebody’s son’ hit track     BBNaija Level Up: 26th housemate joins level two housemates     BBNaija Level Up: Biggie introduces 25th housemate   Eloswag and Phyna were caught flirting heavily as they danced the night away. They ended up enjoying soft kisses even as Amaka was shocked. Groovy ignores Beauty to groove Chomzy Level two housemate, Groovy sure got his groove back at the first Saturday night party. The 6-footer threw caution to the wind to enjoy flirtatious and sensual dance moves with female housemates from level one. One of his really intimate dance moves sessions was with Chomzy, who cared less and enjoyed the whole session with Groovy while Beauty watches on in amusement. Kess goes shirtless Another housemate that caught the attention of fans and viewers is Kess, who is the only married housemate. The level two housemate danced with some of the housemates from level one and also the housemates in his level. At some point during the party, Kess decided to go shirtless and his energy on the dance floor was felt and matched by Hermes. Dotun spotted with Beauty The first party wasn’t just all about the dance it was also filled with steamy kisses and flirtation. Level one housemate Dotun was spotted having conversations with level two housemate Beauty outside the party room. This happened many minutes after Groovy was spotted grooving Chomzy on the dance floor. Gbenga Bada Group Assistant Entertainment Editor The Nation Newspapers 08028599392