Super Eagles midfielder Joe Aribo said Southampton can challenge for Europe after completing a move to the  English Premier League. The central midfielder has spent the last three years with Scottish giants Rangers where he has truly established himself as a top-level player. The 25-year-old made 148 appearances for the Glasgow side, in which he helped them to win the Scottish Premiership, and the Scottish Cup and played a key role in the club’s journey to the Europa League final last term. As a result of his success, Southampton made the move to bring him to the Premier League, a decision that while proving difficult for the player, was always the right move given his ambitions in the game. Speaking of how difficult a decision the move was on White and Jordan, Aribo said: “It definitely was. Rangers are a massive club and it was amazing being there from minute one. “It was a really hard decision for me but my aim was always to play in the Premier League because it’s the best league in the world.   Super Eagles Bassey completes £20m move to Ajax     Free agent Dybala signs for Mourinho’s Roma     Napoli makes Plan B for Osimhen   “It’s always been a goal for me to reach that and so I had to take that opportunity.” For Aribo, the start to life with the Saints doesn’t get much tougher with Southampton facing Tottenham, Chelsea, and Manchester United within their opening five fixtures, however, the midfielder said   he’s not worried about facing the best. He said: “For me, I feel the excitement. I’m not really a nervous player anymore, I used to be at times but now I just embrace the moment and embrace the occasion and I’m excited to get going and I can’t wait.” Asked  about the club’s ambitions this term, Aribo added: “We want to push and we want to fight. “We want to get ourselves into the top half of the table and push for Europe, that’s the aim. “We need to give our best and do what we can as a team because we’re on a good journey here and I’m excited for what’s to come, so let’s see where that takes us.”