Whereas Nigerians may have in the past years vented their displeasure with the performance of the unbundled electricity entities, last week would serve as the final repudiation and indictment of the process that ushered in the class of players under which the sector hit the nadir. It was a final attestation to what Nigerians have always known and feared about the lack of capacity of the operators and the utter lack of transparency in the process that produced them. It began when on Tuesday July 5 the federal government announced the takeover of Kano, Benin and Kaduna electricity distribution companies by Fidelity Bank.  The three entities, according to both the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) and the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), had, in addition to falling miserably short on their statutory responsibilities, neglected to repay the loans taken from the bank to acquire their asset during the 2013 privatisation as a result of which the bank had activated its right to take them over. Recall that the BPE announced had similarly obtained approval from NERC to appoint an interim managing director for Ibadan Disco following its take-over by the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON). By some uncanny coincidence, the federal government is said to have forwarded a notice to the management and board of Port Harcourt Disco on its restructuring plan to forestall the imminent insolvency of the utility. Yola and Abuja Discos had earlier lost their initial management to the government under the same circumstances. While some might be tempted to call the moves as stealth, backdoor reacquisition of sorts, Nigerians deserve to be spared of such shibboleths given that the privatisation process itself was ab initio utterly flawed. It seems to us a reinforcement of the saying that what goes round comes around.   Kill the bill      The hypnotised 77     Rent warning   This is a sector in which the regulator has had to look away from serial infractions ranging from neglect of basic service parameters to such other fundamental obligations as would be expected in a service-oriented sector. Rather than the promises of investments, of overhaul of the business methods and practices under which Nigerians are exploited and denied value for their money’s worth, the sector continues to dip to the point that it even now threatens to drag the financial services sector down with it. Of course, like in previous cases, the BPE is quite clear about the cause of the action in the latest case of Kano, Benin and Kaduna DisCos. It stated that the action was a contractual and commercial intervention between the core investors in the Discos and the lender and that it was involved because of the 40 per cent shareholding of government in the Discos. No matter the extraneous motives that may be attributed to the action by government, what is undeniable is the fact that the former investors, through unparalleled incompetence, supplied the noose for the hangmen to do them in. After all, the same federal government has serially bent backwards to provide financial accommodation to them to aid the sector’s stabilisation when it mattered the most. As at the last count, the sector has gulped over N1.5 trillion in interventions and loans from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Put side by side with the $2.53 billion (a mere N404bn based on the exchange rate at the time) realised from the sale of the Discos and Gencos which is less than 30 percent, the picture of the scandal and the unmitigated disaster that the sector has become post-privatisation emerges. The latest measure could therefore, not have come as a surprise. If anything, it is coming several years late. What it suggests is that the Federal Government has finally woken up to the recognition that the current crop of players, not only lacks the technical capacity, but also the financial acumen to move the sector forward.        The immediate task is to ensure that the out-of-favour investors are not allowed to hold the country down through frivolous judicial processes. Next is for the government to immediately come up with fresh roadmaps with clear timelines guided by a transparent and world class divestment programme to ensure that the repossessed shares are sold to entities with global track records.