There was always the possibility that something bad might happen to any of the Abuja-Kaduna train attack abductees in captivity. The bad news that one of the abductees was shot and injured this week shows how dangerous the situation is for them.  He was identified as Mohammed Al’Amin, and his captors were said to have refused to free him despite his alleged critical condition. Malam Tukur Mamu, who has been playing the role of negotiator, said the shooting occurred during “friendly exchanges of fire at the forest between the abductors that are guarding the victims and preventing them from possible escape.” However, he added, “it could also be intentional from them for the purpose of sending a message.” It’s been three months since bandits attacked a Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) train on that route. The corporation had said there were 362 people on board the train when it was attacked on March 28.  Sadly, eight passengers were killed, 41 injured, and many were abducted. After the incident, the attackers had threatened to kill the captives if the Federal Government failed to meet their demands.  “We don’t need money,” they said, and demanded “prisoner exchange.” In the circumstances, the longer the abductees stay in captivity, the more they are exposed to danger. This is the reality, and the authorities should not be in denial.   Prioritising people     Dissociative identity disorder     Blood lust   Before the news of the shooting, 51 people were reported to be still in captivity following the release of 11 hostages on June 11.  Five males were said to have been released on health grounds.  Six females were freed.  The negotiator said the females, “who are among the vulnerable, are part of the agreement reached with the abductors.” Predictably, the families of the remaining captives are troubled. The public is also disturbed. News of the shooting suggests that anything can happen to the remaining captives. “Killing of their victims is something we know they can do. They have threatened to do that before,” the negotiator said. This is why the authorities must take action to ensure that none of the captives is killed. According to the negotiator, “the government has the power to bring this to an end within three to four days…Cases of emergency such as this do not require unnecessary bureaucracy.” The alarm is loud enough. The authorities should not wait until the bandits carry out their threat before taking them seriously.  If the government is unable to rescue the captives, it should be able to negotiate their release.