Jarrell Miller’s promoter said he was  targeting a fight against Anthony Joshua later this year. Dmitry Salita however admitted  a match-up would only transpire should the former champion lose his August 20 rematch against Oleksandr Usyk. ‘Big Baby’ was set to fight Joshua in 2019 at Madison Square Garden before he was forced to withdraw just six weeks beforehand after failing multiple drug tests, with Andy Ruiz Jr replacing him. The American, who received a backdated two-year ban in December 2020 having tested positive for another banned substance prior to a scheduled bout against Jerry Forrest in July of that year, returned to the ring in June as he beat Ariel Bracamonte on points. Miller is determined to remain active following his return, with another fight to come on Saturday against little-known Derek Cardenas, who has lost his last three fights on the spin. Providing the 34-year-old emerges victorious once more, Salita has revealed he will look to bring the heavyweight to the United Kingdom, with a bout against Joshua the ultimate goal.   Super Eagles Bassey completes £20m move to Ajax     Free agent Dybala signs for Mourinho’s Roma     Napoli makes Plan B for Osimhen   Joshua suffered his first career defeat when Ruiz Jr replaced Miller three years ago, before becoming a two-time unified champion with an impressive unanimous decision victory over the Mexican-American later that year in Saudi Arabia. The 32-year-old is now braced for another crucial rematch on August 20, again in Saudi Arabia, having lost his WBA, WBO, and IBF belts to a masterful Usyk in September of last year. Salita acknowledged  Joshua will likely fight heavyweight rival Tyson Fury should he overcome the Ukrainian, but believes a bout between the former rivals would make sense if not. Miller recently touched down on UK soil as he joined the Fury camp prior to the Gypsy King’s stunning stoppage victory over Dillian Whyte at Wembley Stadium in April, and ‘The Body Snatcher’ is also now a target for the American. Salita insisted more realistic opponents for Miller are both Whyte, who is in need of a win after falling to a third career defeat, and Derek Chisora, following the veteran’s split-decision victory over Kubrat Pulev. Chisora has admitted his time in the spotlight is coming to an end, namechecking Deontay Wilder as a potential opponent as the 38-year-old seeks to finish his career fighting the best in the division.