Some kingmakers in Ifon community, Ose Local Government Area of Ondo State, have rejected the government’s decision to pick their next king from the Umaugba ruling house. They said it is not the turn of the Umaugba house to produce the next Olufon. The Olufon stool became vacant in November 2020 after Oba Isreal Adeusi was killed by gunmen. Prof. Adetokunbo Adeola, who spoke for the princes at a news conference, said Ifon needs an acceptable monarch chosen by the kingmakers through the guidance of the gods. He warned against playing politics with the kingship. According to him, political office holders who are not from Ifon have been contacting some of the kingmakers, claiming the governor had assigned them to ensure the selection of the government’s acclaimed candidate.   Wike’s camp gives ‘Ayu must go’ condition to back Atiku     Sanwo-Olu, Ganduje, Omisore confident of victory     Yakubu: we’ll beat Ekiti’s record in Osun   He said: “An interlocutory injunction restraining the Ifon kingmakers from acting on the state government’s directives to select the next Olufon pending the hearing of the motion on notice was subsequently granted in May 22 2022. “While the motion on notice was yet to be heard at the High Court in Owo, one of the Princes from Umaugba ruling house, who had been parading himself as the government’s anointed candidate, wrote a frivolous petition against the judge to ensure the case is reassigned to another judge in Akure who might accede to their request. “We have also heard from the acclaimed government’s anointed candidate that all arrangements have been put in place to vacate the interlocutory injunction on July 5, while his selection as the Olufon-elect had been slated for July 7 somewhere outside Ifon town. “The Ifon kingmakers should be allowed to search for and select the next Olufon according to the traditional means laid down by our forefathers. We also appeal to the state government that the judiciary be allowed to resolve the Olufon Chieftaincy matter that is now before it, without undue interference from any quarters. “We say no to any planned imposition of an individual on us as the next Olufon, as our custom and tradition can never be sacrificed on the altar of any political party membership.”