Palpable fear seems to be hitting the camp of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), Osun State chapter as the electorates go to the poll today. They will be electing their governor, who will govern the state for the next four years. Although, more than 10 political parties are contesting the governorship election, it is generally believed that the ticket is mainly between two major contenders – candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Governor Gboyega Oyetola and the PDP, Senator Ademola Adeleke. Both parties have mobilised numerous of their supporters across the nation and beyond. The mobilisation, has led to many of the hotels fully booked in Ede, Ede South Local Government Area and other major towns in the state. Adeleke is from Ede and he seems to be enjoying the backing of majority of the people in the ancient town.   Anxiety as INEC closes nomination for presidential, NASS…     Osun 2022: PRP candidate lampoons executives over withdrawal…     Yakubu to INEC staff: Be above board   Notwithstanding the intensive mobilisation, the PDP camp is already entertaining fear of losing the election. Though some of the residents in Ede said it was their turn to produce the next governor of the state, they however, expressed doubt over Adeleke’s emergence. At a popular hotel in the heart of Ede, Ridiance Hotel otherwise known as Baba Kekere in the heart of the town, some of the PDP chieftains said, they suspected a scenario where APC outdo PDP in votes buying. This claim, has however been refuted on many occasions by the ruling party. “Well, we will try our best. But, I suspect a situation where some people will collect money from us (PDP) and still vote for the APC” a close associate of Adeleke had lamented. Also, a motorcycle rider, Mr. Waliu Fashola, who said many voters in Osun were ready to support the candidare of Adeleke, however, hinted that, he had heard on good authority that the APC will do everything to retain the ticket. But Fashola said that, there was division within the PDP camp and that may work against Adeleke’s emergence.