Campaign posters of the presidential candidate of Labour Party, Peter Obi on Friday, elicited flurry of mixed reactions, especially on social media platforms. Pictures of the mats went viral, eliciting the condemnation of many, especially Muslims whose religion frowns at the use of images on items of worship. Although, Obi has since issued a disclaimer against the campaign posters, many however faulted and condemned the now-viral images. The said prayer mats were made by support groups to be shared as campaign souvenirs to potential Muslim voters. Reacting, the former Anambra Governor on his Twitter page stated that the mats were not from his campaign team. He said: “The inclusion of my picture on the praying mat by a support group was misguided, even with the best of intentions “It didn’t emanate from my campaign team. I have deep respect for the Muslim faith and indeed, for every other religion. We will never mock any faith, ethnicity or gender. We are one Nigeria.”   Why Reps may reject Water resources Bill again, by Kalu     Police deploy over 13,000 officers for AU/UN, ECOWAS…     Doctors, dentists reject bill to amend University Teaching…   Also, in a similar vein, the senior pastor of Covenant Christian Centre, Poju Oyemade, was under fire on Friday from supporters of Obi over his social media post. Poju in the now-deleted tweets, said youths must not waste their enthusiasm on a “poorly planned project”. Although the clergyman did not mention any name, the tweets were seen as an attack on the youth movement of Obi. The tweet according to Obi’s supporters was calculated as an attempt to portray their candidate (Obi) as unprepared for the 2023 general election. Poju tweeted: “Faith is not just blind belief or hoping for a miracle. Faith sees. Faith has her eyes opened and possesses the evidence upon which it builds its belief. Faith prepares long, sometimes for years just as Joseph did for the years of famine. Faith counts the cost before embarking,” he wrote. “Without having real evidence upon which you are acting nor preparation for the task, recognising real obstacles that lie ahead and making concrete plans, one is just being delusional about the outcome. The enthusiasm of the youth must not be wasted on poorly planned projects. “Noah spent months/years planning for the flood & he was operating in faith. Jesus said no man goes to battle without taking stock first nor lays the foundation of a tower without counting the cost first lest he will be mocked. Our faith is intelligent it doesn’t live in denial.”