1height: Provides daily urban songs to Africans mostly South Africans in general, We publish Fakaza hip hop, Amapiano, Gqom Music from top artists both from home and abroad. We do this in our own little way to contribute to the Music industry at large. We provide you with many options to download and listen to our Daily songs at your leisure. On to our website, use the search box to find the Song, Biography, Music Videos you’re looking for. 1height Fakaza Music House We have a large selection of South African Amapiano songs, including singles, albums, and videos, all of which are of excellent quality and are available for immediate download. Afro House Music, Deep House Music, Gqom Musics, South African Gospel Music, Amapiano, Amapiano Remix, and SA Hip Hop Music are among the added bonuses. And mixtapes from South Africa’s baddest DJs and talents, with compilations of songs featured in the mixtape portion. We’ve got you covered no matter what genre you’re into. 1height Categories  South Africa has a rich and vibrant musical history. During the apartheid years, music was the sound of resistance, producing anti-apartheid songs that further elucidated South Africans’ plight. The country is home to legendary musicians and performers who helped shape the distinct genres of South African music that we know and love today.   CIG MOTORS ENTERS A NEW AUTOMOBILE SALES PARTNERSHIP WITH…     ASUS Introduces The World’s Most Powerful Gaming…     The Gree Coolman Initiative: GREE Nigeria boosts industry…   South Africa is home to a plethora of internationally renowned musicians from various genres, including jazz legend Hugh Masekela, singing diva Miriam Makeba, hip-hop icons Die Antwoord, and Afro-pop singer Brenda Fassie, to name a few.  South African Music Genres in 1height Music Our Speedy Download Links Have you heard about 1Height’s quick and simple download mode? We give you the best opportunity to download the newest songs in MP3 format for leisure. You can download or directly stream any song or album from us to create a pleasant-sounding playlist that you can access at any time. We Love Good Music! You may find tunes from every genre on 1Height, including Afrobeats and heartbreaking R&B, under the singles, albums, and mixtapes categories. What’s nice is that it’s free! Come here to easily download the best South African music, both online (with our listen option) and offline (with our easy-to-download option at your fingertips). Kindly click this here to Download Music“