Elder statesman and former Special Adviser to late president Shehu Shagari, Alh. Tanko Yakasai, has said the Tinubu/ Shettima joint ticket for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will fly. Yakasai, a founding member of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), spoke in the ancient city of Kano. He told reporters he is confident “the joint ticket is representational and will give victory to the ruling party.” “This is not the first time a candidate or leader of this country and his deputy share the same faith.” “When Major General Muhammadu Buhari seized power in 1983, his deputy who was the Chief of staff, Supreme headquarters, Major General Tunde Idiagbon were both Muslim from the north geopolitical region. “Late Mashood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola, a southern Muslim and his running mate, Ambassador Babagana Kingibe, recorded a landslide victory in 1993 general election. “Therefore, it’s not something new to Nigeria, and I’m particularly not disturbed that history has repeated itself, certainly it will work.“   Ganduje frees 90 inmates in celebration of Sallah     Nigeria under siege of terrorists, bandits – ACF     Nigeria faring better under Buhari – Presidency   “Tinubu is from the Southwest from a minority religion, if you ask him to take a minority Northern Christian, it will be minority ticket, and such arrangements negate the principle of participatory democracy. “Northern population consist of 85 percent Muslims and in the principle of fairness, you must choose from the dominant faith to enable the ticket fly. “Don’t forget, Christian faithful in the north consist less than 20 percent of the region’s population. Therefore Tinubu’s choice is representational, balance and fair to competing stakeholders in Nigeria.” “Those canvassing for anything contrary to the existing arrangement want Tinubu to fail. A combination of minority from the south and the north can’t win a competitive election in Nigeria,” Yakasai said. The elder statesman also explained why the choice of Tinubu’s running mate from the Northeast instead of Northwest where the voting block lies, is better. He said: “From the military dictatorship to civil administration, the Northwest produced five heads of states, North Central produced three and apart from late prime minister Tafawa Balewa, the Northeast was nowhere near control of political power and I felt this time around, the region should be given the opportunity.“