Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila has described the choice of former Borno Governor Senator Kashim Shettima as the running mate to the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as a wise decision. Gbajabiamila said Shettima has what it takes to turn the economy around. In a statement by his Special Adviser in Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the Speaker said Shettima has over the years proved his mettle as a shrewd and progressive politician whose eight years as Borno Governor was a defining moment for the State. He said: “Asiwaju is widely known as the biggest talent hunter in the country who has over the years assembled an army of performers in governance irrespective of their ethnicity or religious leaning. This unique feature also can be found in Sen. Shettima following his track record of excellence in both the private and public sectors”. Gbajabiamila said further as a foremost banker, Shettima has the right character and intellectual capacity to turn things around hence having him as the Vice-President under a Tinubu presidency will be a masterstroke in the management of the economy.   Ganduje frees 90 inmates in celebration of Sallah     Nigeria under siege of terrorists, bandits – ACF     Nigeria faring better under Buhari – Presidency   He recalled his first encounter with Shettima, stating: “My first encounter with Gov Shettima, who I had admired from afar was many years ago when he and I travelled together with Asiwaju to the UK to address the issue of terrorism with the British and Nigerians in the Diaspora. “I was amazed by Shettima’s depth, ability and capacity to engage Christiana Amanpour, a journalist of international repute. He earned my respect (and I must say that of his interviewer) even more ever since then.” The Speaker said the Tinubu/Shettima ticket is a good combination that will lead to success at the polls for the APC. Gbajabiamila congratulated TInubu for making “the wise decision,” noting that Nigerians yearned for such a great team. The Speaker called on Nigerians to support the Tinubu/Shettima ticket and other APC candidates for various elective offices during the 2023 elections. Ends