Niger Delta leaders yesterday called for the prosecution of those indicted in the forensic audit report of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The leaders, under the Niger Delta Alternatives Convergence, are from the nine states. They consist of eminent monarchs, frontline leaders, heads of civil society organisations, socio-cultural groups and academics. They called for the immediate release of the forensic report and a review of the NDDC Act to ensure greater accountability, prudence and participation of people in the affairs of the interventionist agency. According to them, efforts to address the poverty and despoliation of the Niger Delta had largely failed. The demands are contained in a communique signed by the Director of Health of Mother Earth Foundation (HOMEF), Dr. Nnimmo Bassey. It was issued at the end of the elders’ meeting in Uyo and chaired by a former Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Obong Victor Attah. The leaders stated: “All states in the region should establish special agencies for the administration of 13 per cent derivation revenues for the benefit of oil-producing communities. “We demand immediate review of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) by the National Assembly to provide a definite deadline for gas flaring by oil companies and eliminate powers to permit flaring; and review gas flare fines to reflect the same amount as the commercial value of natural gas in the international market, while transferring flare fines to host communities.   10 dead, seven injured in Yobe crash     Acting Accountant-General replaced     I never asked Christians to buy guns, says Adeboye   “The reviewed PIA should also eliminate the section that places the responsibility to protect oil installations on host communities, and remove the powers to establish Host Community Development Funds from the ‘settlor’ or oil companies, and bestow same on each host community.” The critical stakeholders believe greater attention should be given to the Niger Delta by the Federal Government to give them a sense of belonging. They said: “We demand an immediate and comprehensive audit of the entire Niger Delta region. “The audit should cover environmental, livelihood, health, social and economic impacts of crude oil and gas extraction. “The audit should be immediately followed by the remediation of impacted places, restoration of the human and ecological damages caused by extraction activities, and reparations for the irreversible damages caused by oil extraction. “The Federal Government should immediately produce a framework and guide for how oil companies can disengage from areas where they have operated in the Niger Delta.” The leaders also stated that the land and forest rights of communities must be restored and respected, especially in Cross River State. They called for more effort to check the spate of deforestation in the Niger Delta, adding that detailed plans should be produced to respond to new and emerging climate change threats. These, they said, must include strategies for supporting community resilience, controlling flooding, relocating communities, addressing health concerns and providing for the social and economic needs of the affected people. Also at the weekend, the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) said it has cancelled contracts awarded to Express Concern International (ECN) for the training of ex-agitators in its novel Train, Employ and Mentor (TEM) scheme.