Oluwasegun Ajose’s hope of having a good rest in the  night of Monday,  June 13 was dashed by dare-devil hoodlums who desecrated the hallowed premises of the Celestial Church of Christ, Samuel Bilehou Joseph Oshoffa (SBJO) Parish in Wasinmi, Ewekoro Local Government Area, Ogun State, where he serves as the Assistant  Shepherd in charge of the church. The 38-year-old priest, who said it was earlier revealed to him in a trance that a member of his household would be abducted, said he had prayed to God to avert the terrible revelation, not knowing that he was the one about to be kidnapped. He said: “Before the incident occurred on June 13, I had received several revelations that one of my children was abducted. “My wife also told me that she had a dream that my child was abducted and dumped at the roadside by an acquaintance and she eventually brought the child home. “From that moment, I started praying that God should not allow any member of my family to fall into the hands of kidnappers. “That very Monday, June 13, when the incident happened, I asked my wife to sleep in our room at the church, while I decided to sleep in the church auditorium. “I avoided falling into deep sleep because I would have to ring the bell to call members who were around for usher’s vigil as the service conductor. “Suddenly, around 11 pm, I started hearing some voices outside the church auditorium. When I looked outside I saw six herdsmen bearing arms and dangerous weapons. “One of them attempted to hit me with a rod in his hand but I managed to give him some blows and he fell down. “Their age ranged between 25 and 35 years. Two of them were armed with AK47 rifles while another one had a double-barrelled rifle with no fewer than 200 rounds of live ammunition and six machetes.” Within moments, the invaders stripped Ajose and other church members of their white garments to prevent people from recognising them as they led them at gunpoint into the forest. Ajose said: “They seized me and a Sunday school teacher, Ayobami Dagunduro, and manhandled us. They led us away at gunpoint and stripped us of our garments so that people would not recognise us as they dragged us through the forest that night. “Around 5 am, we arrived at a location inside the forest and slept there while they threatened to kill us if no ransom was paid to secure our freedom. “They spoke Yoruba, English and Fulfude. They demanded a sum of N50 million as ransom and moved us again the next day. “They took my phone and used it to talk to my wife. They then smashed it on the ground after they had exhausted the call credit on it. “They also removed the SIM card and seized my partner’s (Ayobami’s) phone, transferring the sum of N14,000 they found in it. “They gave us a small phone to speak with our family members so they could raise the sum demanded as ransom for our freedom.” The abductors resorted to torturing their victims before asking them to speak with their family members on the phone. “They tortured us mercilessly with the flat side of their machetes and rod.   Forty eight hours and more after PDP dared OBJ     When marriage isn’t sitcom…Funke Akindele’s second marriage…     Who is afraid of Muslim-Muslim ticket?   They beat us two or three times every day, asking us to speak with our family members so they could quickly provide the ransom. “I continued to pray and wondered why such fate would befall me despite the prayers I made to forestall evil in my life. “On the third day, they continued to move us around forests. At some point, they cooked rice, noodles and spaghetti in some pots in their kitty and stuffed their bags with Indian hemp, cigarettes and a popular alcoholic drink. I however refused to eat their food. “At a stage, I told Ayobami that we must continue to pray for our freedom but he said that he could no longer hold his hunger or continue with the fasting we embarked on since our abduction. “He pleaded with me to eat the spaghetti prepared by the hoodlums and I used the tip of my fingers to take some of the meal into my mouth and swallowed them. “They also offered me chinchin which I ate and threw the rest away. I did not drink water or defecate throughout the six days I spent in the kidnappers’ den.” While their fate hung in the balance, Ajose launched into his church hymns to keep his hope for providential intervention alive. In the course of doing that, he said, the kidnappers complained that they were held back by divine forces from killing him and the other victim. Hence, they cut off a portion of his long hair, which they suspected was his source of spiritual power. “On the fourth day, they reduced the ransom from N50 million to N10 million. On the fifth day, the kidnappers threatened they would kill us with their guns and machetes. They moved us to several locations within the forest and at a point, I was just singing Celestial Church’s hymns to strengthen my faith in God. “The kidnappers asked for my source of spiritual power. They said they suspected that my bushy or long hair was my source of power because some unseen forces were holding them back from killing us. “Hence, they used their machetes to cut off some of my hair hoping that I would become powerless. Unknown to them, God had asked me to keep my hair and I haven’t cut it in a long time. “In the afternoon on the fifth day, they reduced the ransom to N1 million and demanded cartons of noodles, five packets of Benson cigarettes and rice. “On the sixth day of our abduction, our relatives provided all the items and the sum of one million naira each. They took their time to count the money paid as ransom to ensure that it was complete, following which they released us exactly around 11.15 pm which, incidentally, was the time they abducted us at the church. “They moved us through the forest from Itori to Sagamu. For about one and a half hours, we were wading through a vast swamp and we were almost submerged in the swamp. “They took us back to Itori and moved us across the road to the Aga community, which is just a stone’s throw from the Dangote Cement factory at Ibeshe. “I asked them for my SIM card and they gave us a small phone to call our family members to pick us up and left. “They warned us not to return to our church for now because they said they still have a mission to accomplish around the community where our church is located. “They have a boss they defer to, whom they spoke to on the phone in Fulfude several times. It was their boss that instructed them on what to do.” Like a dog that escaped from the den of Tigers, Ajose thanked God for his new lease of life after regaining his freedom. He recalled how he began work as a priest over a decade ago at the same church where he was abducted, and thanked the shepherd in charge of the church and numerous others for their prayers and empathy while his travails at the hands of his abductors lasted. He said: “I am from Imeko/Afon LGA of Ogun State. I started work as a priest in December 2009. I was a videographer until I received the divine call to become a priest and work in His vineyard at the Celestial Church of Christ, Samuel Bilehou Joseph Oshoffa Parish in the Wasinmi area of Ewekoro Local Government. “I have been confronted with a lot of tribulations and I really thank God for my shepherd, Oluwatosin Olugbebi Ehuwaojomo, for standing by me in many difficult periods of my priesthood. “I also thank all the people that stood by us especially men and women of God that prayed for my freedom. “My travail is a lesson that we should not desist from praying to God for His protection at all times because there have been cases of victims killed by kidnappers even after ransom was paid by their family members.”