Controversial actor Uche Maduagwu has reacted to the unveiling of his colleague, Funke Akindele as the running mate for Lagos Governorship candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Dr. Olajide Adediran aka Jandor. Jandor, on Tuesday, announcing the choice of the popular ‘Omo Ghetto’ star stated, she hailing from Ikorodu and Lagos East Senatorial District like the incumbent Deputy Governor possesses the overwhelming popularity to garner votes. Akindele also confirmed the nomination, saying she would work assiduously for the party and for Lagos to have a breath of fresh air. But Maduwagwu has queried the choice of Akindele as the deputy governorship candidate terming it a ‘preposterously insensitive’ one.   I must marry virgin from Israel – Actor Aguba     I’d rather patronise outsiders than friends – Actress…     10 Nigerian entertainers with traditional titles   The Instagram celebrity maintained though Akindele possessed superb acting prowess but was unfit for leadership citing the incident which occurred during Lockdown in April 2020, (the year pandemic struck really hard), where the actress threw a birthday party, flouting the COVID-19 rules and exposing people to grave danger. He wrote: “Aunty Funke is fantastic actress but selecting her as Deputy Governorship candidate for Lagos 2023 is preposterously insensitive. “A celeb wey no fit respect social distancing by throwing house party During Lockdown is ignorant of spiritual leadership. “Dear Aunty Funke, you are a senior colleague and I have tremendous respect for your superb prowess in #acting but if this Na another Jenifa series, Abeg tell us. “They say the true test of #LEADERSHIP is known during difficult times or adversity, and if at unpleasant time of never before seen #global pandemic when #Nigerians Dey observe social distancing to SAVE lives, you boastfully threw a flamboyant house #PARTY without cognitive RESPECT for safety and the effect of such absurd act on the millions of innocent fans who look up to you, it shows you have a long way to go on leadership spiritual journey in the prolific #school of OBIdient Ma.”