2021/22 Nigeria Professional Football League came to its climax on Sunday, 17th July, 2022. It, however, did not fail to produce some exceptional talents and beautiful football to the admiration of fans and supporters alike. One of such revelations at the just-concluded season is Nasarawa United’s central attacker, Chisom Okereke Sunday reports Taofeek Babalola. Chisom Okereke Sunday joined the Solid Miners at the beginning of the 2021/22 campaign but never had the opportunity to break into the main team due to the presence of “senior” players, and this was even made more difficult for him as 2020/21 season’s joint-highest goal scorer, Silas Nwankwo, who now plays for Mjallby AIF in the Swedish Allsvenskan (top division), was still donning the colours of the Lafia-based side. But like it’s always said, for everything, there is a time and season, just like patience pays. After a disappointing first stanza, the coaching crew led by Bala Nikyu, conscious of the herculean task in the second half of the league, then deemed it necessary to offer Chisom the opportunity to prove his worth in front of goal. The 18-year-old striker did not delay before proving the bookmakers wrong. The Anambra State-born sensation featured in all nineteen matches in the second phase of the league, coming off the bench only four times, causing havoc and concern for opposition defenders. At six feet (2 meters) tall, the bulky attacker netted thrice in all games, each of those goals against household teams like Plateau United in Bauchi, Enyimba FC in Aba and league winners, Rivers United, in Jos, and assisting one goal. The teenager began his football career with Enyiogugu Football Academy, in Imo State, between 2010 and 2015. He later left the Academy for Royal Kash FC, Lagos, between 2015 to 2020, featuring in the FA Cup with the team. Chisom would later move to Atlantic Business FC, Lagos, in 2021, also playing in the FA Cup with them, before joining his dream Club, Nasarawa United, at the beginning of the 2021/22 season.   Chukwueze on target as Villarreal defeat Dortmund     McLaughlin smashes 400m hurdles record at Oregon     Iheanacho scores in preseason, as Ndidi returns to action   The gangling forward, who disclosed that Belgian international, Romelu Lukaku, is his role model, is equipped with lethal striking attributes reminiscent of the former Chelsea hitman. He possesses electric speed and quickness, deadly accuracy, and short memory which make him easily forget about missed opportunities. “I admire how Romelu Lukaku plays and he inspires me a lot. I also fancy the playing pattern of Nigeria’s and Napoli’s Victor Osimhen; these players score a lot of goals, and I also want to score as many goals as possible,” Chisom said. The Solid Miners’ attacking sensation’s football touch, physical strength, body movement, and confidence are top-notch.​ A great team player, who also possesses excellent communication skills and adapts quickly to the reading of the match, played a vital role in the Lafia-based outfit 20221/2022 season campaign that earned them a 6th position on the table after their final league game with a 1-0 away win over MFM FC at the Dipo Dina International Stadium, Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State.​ ​ The youngster can also play as a supportive striker and winger, muscling his way through heavy defensive traffics, and can equally maneuver through a forest of legs with his wits and skills, either scoring or creating chances for his team. Built like the African Buffalo, the 2021/22 season was Chisom’s litmus test in the NPFL, and with a very bright future before him, the teenager can emulate or surpass the goal-scoring record set by his predecessor, Silas Nwankwo, whose jersey number (31) he currently adorns. “My parents didn’t support my football career from the beginning, but later on, they began to see the need for me to actualize my dream. I would have been a fashion designer if I was not playing football,” he said. He added: “I chose to play for Nasarawa United because I love the club and want to help them win laurels, even though the league is very tough. “We ended the season in the sixth position, which is not bad, seeing how we started. Nobody ever thought we could finish at that level. Next season will be better for us, God willing.