British International Investment (BII), the United Kingdom Government’s Development Finance Institution (DFI), has announced a $20 million four-year structured credit investment in Moove – a mobility fintech firm that provides access to vehicle ownership in Africa. The investment reflects BII’s focus on mobilising capital to build self-sufficiency and market resilience in Nigeria, and improve access to inclusive economic opportunities while helping to catalyse the country’s boundless entrepreneurial ambition. The British High Commissioner in Nigeria, Catriona Laing and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of BII, Nick O’Donohoe, co-hosted the reception in Lagos to celebrate the launch of BII’s new name and reiterate the DFI’s continued ambition to scale up investment that will boost key economic sectors in Nigeria. The event, which held at the British Deputy High Commissioner’s Residence in Ikoyi, Lagos, brought together key leaders in business and BII’s investment partners from across the country. BII’s leadership outlined the organisation’s strategy to deliver productive, sustainable and inclusive investment and pledged to deepen its capital commitments to support the emergence of more Nigerian businesses providing progressive solutions to urgent and complex development challenges. Laing said: “It’s a pleasure to be in Lagos to mark the launch of British International Investment, and to host Nick O’Donohoe during his visit to Nigeria.” “BII forms an important part of the UK’s package of tools and expertise to help Nigeria build their pipeline for investment and scale up infrastructure investment, in particular to achieve clean, green growth. “The launch of BII marks a continuation of this partnership, and we look forward to seeing BII’s support expand and diversify in Nigeria.”   Strengthen cybersecurity to remain safe, CBN urges OFIs     Marie Tecnimont supports Nigeria’s development     Arden & Newton, Ford Foundation inaugurate report   O’Donohoe highlighted BII’s 74-year history in Nigeria, from its first investments in 1949, in West African Fisheries and Cold Store, to the organisation’s pioneering role in supporting the country’s first private equity fund – African Capital Alliance’s Capital Alliance Private Equity Fund I (CAPE I). On how BII’s new five-year strategy is driving its investment in the world’s first mobility fintech, Moove, O’Donohoe said: “Investing in the prosperity of Nigeria’s growing population requires innovative new partnerships that can leverage the country’s abundant capabilities and expertise. In Moove, BII has a partner that aligns with our commitment to back dynamic tech-enabled businesses that can help accelerate impact in Nigeria by strengthening the country’s informal transport industry. “I am delighted that not only will BII’s investment help to create jobs and provide entrepreneurial self-starters with the means to own their vehicles, but Moove’s clear focus on gender diversity will foster inclusive economic opportunities for women, both within the company’s workforce and among its drivers.” Co-founder/co-CEO, Moove, Ladi Delano, said: “We’re incredibly proud to welcome onboard a world-class partner such as BII, whose strategic support will play a key role in our mission to build the world’s largest integrated vehicle financing platform for mobility entrepreneurs. “With our new funding, we’re now in an even stronger position to use our technology and productivity data in creating a more inclusive financing ecosystem, whilst also tackling the unemployment problem affecting over a third of Nigerians by generating the opportunity for more seamless and sustainable employment.” Nigeria is the BII’s biggest investment market in Africa, with a portfolio of about US $570 million, through more than 100 businesses and 43 funds, which support almost 45,000 jobs as at 2020. The DFI’s investments in Nigeria, through various impact-led funds and intermediaries, cover a various sectors – clean infrastructure and energy to digital infrastructure, food and agriculture, financial services, manufacturing and logistics.