All Progressives Congress (APC) Governors on Monday in Daura, Katsina declared their support for the choice of Senator Kashim Shettima as the running mate to the party’s Presidential candidate, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu. The APC Governors made the decision shortly after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari in his Daura country home. They said they had confidence in the combination of Tinubu and Shettima to ensure victory for the party at the presidential election. Chairman of the Progressives Governors forum, Abubakar Bagudu, told journalists at the end of the closed -door meeting that the Governors will work for the victory of the party at the polls He said: “We were pleasantly surprised when Ashiwaju Ahmed Tinubu announced in Daura on Sunday that Senator Kashim Ibrahim Shettima was the Vice Presidential candidate.” ” We were happy that it is no less a person than Senator Shettima who was announced the Vice Presidential candidate.No doubt ,Senator Shettima would compliment the good qualities of Asiwaju Tinubu”. ”We are very very happy at the choice.The two will compliment one another and will surely consolidate on the achievements of the President in the past seven years.”   Ganduje frees 90 inmates in celebration of Sallah     Nigeria under siege of terrorists, bandits – ACF     Nigeria faring better under Buhari – Presidency   Bagudu added their visit to Daura was to felicitate with the President for Sallah. Imo Governor Hope Uzodinma said Shettima’s choice as running mate was a collective decision by all the Progressives Governors, adding they would work hard to ensure victory for the APC in the 2023 election. He said: “The choice of Senator Shettima as the vice presidential candidate is a collective decision.We shall work hard to ensure victory in all our states.” Plateau Governor,Simon Lalong said while the choice of running mate was the prerogative of the presidential candidate, all the APC Governors would work to ensure the party’s victory at the 2023 general elections. He declared” A Presidential candidate has the prerogative of picking his Vice.But ours is to ensure party’s victory in the Presidential election.” The nine Governors were: Aminu Masari(Katsina); Abdullahi Ganduje( Kano); Abubakar Bagudu ( Kebbi); Abubakar Bello( Niger); Abdullahi Sule ( Nasarawa); Hope Uzodinma ( Imo); Kayode Fayemi ( Ekiti) ; Simon Lalong( Plateau) and Nasir El-Rufai ( Kaduna).