Owa Obokun Adimula of Ijesaland, Oba Gabriel Adekunle Aromolaran, has assured Osun Governor Adegboyega Oyetola he would be re-elected. He said the whole of Ijeshaland will back him for a second term in office. The monarch spoke while receiving Oyetola, Co-Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Campaign Council for Osun poll, Governor Babajide Sanwolu and Governor Abdullahi Ganduje when the campaign train moved to Ijesa-south Federal Constituency. Oba Aromolaran said: “You are the incumbent Governor but you have proved yourself with your satisfactory performance. You have not disappointed us in any way, and your emergence is not doubtful, especially among my people. We will not let you down. “Whoever stands by God will never fail. We thank you Mr. Governor for all you have done for us and we thank you for what you will be doing in your second term. “We are not known for dilly-dallying in our collective history, and it won’t start in our disposition towards you. In other words, we will not disappoint you.   Akeredolu’s CCTV order     Don’t drop Okowa as running mate, Igbo youths warn…     Ekweremadu and NASS’ overreach   “We are united with you in purpose and developmental intentions, and that is why we are standing by you now, and we will stand by you with our votes. “The whole of Ijesaland and Osun are proud of you because you are a true Excellency who knows the value of education, good health system and other critical indices of development. I don’t want to talk too much than to thank you.” While addressing the crowd of supporters and residents, Oyetola urged them to be wary of the intimidation strategy of politicians, saying no anti-democratic schemes will stand in the forthcoming election. He reassured the electorate of utmost safety before, during and after the election, saying necessary mechanisms will be put in place to ensure a hitch-free electoral process. Oyetola tasked the loyalists of his party to double their efforts of mobilisation strategy, urging those that have not collected their Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVCs) to do so without further delay. Ends.