A non-profit organisation committed to developing young leaders to address educational inequity across Nigeria, Teach For Nigeria, has launched its 2022 Incubation Hub programme. The Incubation Hub was first launched in 2020 and is part of Teach For Nigeria’s commitment to support the alumni community of its two-year fellowship programme. This year, the focus areas for the hub are early childhood education, teachers training and development, education in emergencies or conflict areas, poverty and hunger, research and policy. The programme provides the relevant resources to enable social innovators from Teach for Nigeria alumni to scale their education innovations from the project or prototype stage to an enterprise. Selected participants would be provided with relevant training and practical knowledge to build, scale up and sustain their businesses through a three-month intensive training targeted at national and systems-level social change.   Gbajabiamila inaugurates ICT Centre at Birch Freeman High…     Fed Govt committed to skills acquisition for youths     ‘Plans underway to construct 18 mega schools in Northeast’   Speaking during the launch, Chief Executive Officer, Teach For Nigeria, Folawe Omikunle, said: “We know that the challenge of education inequity is not one that Teach For Nigeria alone can solve but we are very clear about our mission in really developing, galvanising, cultivating as many dynamic leaders as possible, who will share with us in this mission and vision and we will continue to serve as catalyst to ensure they are able to crystalise solutions across the ecosystem.” Esther Ijadunola, a Teach for Nigeria alumni and one of the selected participants stated: “I am excited to have been selected as one of the participants for the 2022 incubation hub. Through these initiatives, we are building a vision of what inclusive education would look like. I am excited about scaling up my Smart Garden Initiative birthed to improve food security of poor households and teach students how to launch their personal gardens at home.” The programme builds on organisation’s long-term strategy designed to proffer solutions to challenges identified within the education sector. Alumni selected for the 2022 incubation hub will have access to three months intensive hybrid ideation workshop and bootcamp, opportunity to win seed funding up one million Naira and access to post programme support and mentoring by seasoned entrepreneurs. Teach For Nigeria is a non-profit organisation focused on enlisting Nigeria’s most promising future leaders in the effort to expand educational and life opportunities for all children in Nigeria.