RELIEF has come the way of over 1, 000 ex-staff of nonconsolidated banks as they secured a court judgement mandating the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) to settle their unpaid entitlements estimated at over N5.7billion, The Nation can authoritatively report. Giving fresh insights on this development on Friday were some of the affected erstwhile employees, who spoke with our correspondent in Lagos. The aggrieved ex-banks’ staff hitherto in the employ of defunct banks including Trade Bank, Hallmark Bank, Gulf Bank, Metropolitan Bank, and All States Bank respectively, who spoke under the aegis of the Association of Ex-Staff of Nonconsolidated Banks of Nigeria, were led by some of the executive members of the group namely: Chairman, Pastor Magnus Maduka; Deputy Vice Chairman, Vincent Elelegwu; Director of Administration, Mr. Okey Igwe; Director of Protocol, Aliyu JK Olaiya; Publicity Secretary, Charity Obuotor; and Ebimowei Suoye. Maduka who recalled that the association was a child of necessity borne out of the need to seek justice in the face of obvious victimisation and witch-hunt, said it was heartening to note that justice is about to be served on account of the judgement delivered at the National Industrial Court of Nigeria, Lagos Judicial Division. Specifically, Maduka recalled: “Justice Paul Bassi of the National Industrial Court, Lagos, ordered CBN and NDIC to pay us (those affected by the recapitalisation exercise carried out by the CBN in 2006) N5.7 billion terminal benefits within three months.   ‘My abductors cut my long hair with machete, fearing it was…     Owo attack: US senators want Nigeria restored to religious…     UK to send Nigerian criminals home to serve jail terms   “The judge gave the regulators three months with which to get back to us, failing which there will be 10 percent interest on the sum in question; but up until now, they have not gotten across to us. “But, we cannot preempt them because the deadline is not yet here, it’s just a little over a month now. So, we believe they must be doing something that will come out positive and we don’t expect any nasty surprise.’’ Maduka who lamented that over 350 members of the association had lost their lives so far, not to mention others nursing terminal ailments and several untimely deaths of defendants of their colleagues, among others, would rather the CBN and the NDIC obey the court judgement in the interest of peace, equity, and justice. The court judgement issued on May 23rd, 2022, comes with a three-month moratorium which lapse on August 22nd, 2022. It may be recalled that the consolidation exercise introduced by the then CBN governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo which swept through the banking sub-sector, left some banks defunct as a result of their inability to meet the new N25billion capital benchmark.