The Women Committee, also known as ‘Women Gender Equity’ of the Nigeria Union of Pensioners (NUP), Lagos Council, has called for the empowerment of widowed pensioners in Lagos State. It also called for the empowerment and recognition of women in political positions across the country, saying women have what it takes to hold leadership positions. The group made the plea during the inauguration of the ‘Women Gender Equity’ Committee at Islanders Hotel in Mushin, Lagos State. Chairperson Princess Emilia Bashorun, in her acceptance speech, pleaded with relevant authorities at all levels of government to hear their plea for the empowerment of women, especially widows who have no support system. Bashorun also stressed the need for the involvement of women in leadership positions at all levels of decision making in the country.   Coalition promises to ensure victory for Oyetola     I’ll not let you down, Adeleke tells Timi of Ede     Four injured as PDP, APC supporters clash in Ede   According to her, there is a need to consistently create avenues to help women grow, flourish and maximise the opportunities that exist for them. She said: “Women Gender Equity is about women for progress and to enable us move forward. Our mandate is to work together as a team, request our needs from the government to enable us reach greater heights.” Bashorun added: “We want to be in politics, we want to move along with the men, and we can only do this when we are recognised by relevant authorities. We have what it takes, but we also need a strong support system to move ahead in our careers.” The chairperson assured her team that her tenure will not be business as usual and things will be better than before. “I will move from one local government to another and send a letter to the relevant institutions to make our plea known. We need to start negotiating for ourselves, finding out how we can be recognised to fill in leadership positions. There are many women who are competent and capable. We must show ourselves to the world and let them know we are capable,” she added. Senior Assistant-General Secretary (Gender) of the NUP Mrs. Nkiruka Ofodile said the inauguration will give a sense of belonging to female members of the NUP and further strengthen them to work harder for the growth and development of the union. She urged the officials to abide by the union’s constitution in the discharge of their duties.