Co-chairmen of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Campaign Council for the Osun governorship poll, Governors Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos) and Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano) are confident the APC will secure a landslide victory in the election. This view was also shared by the party’s National Secretary Senator Iyiola Omisore. They spoke yesterday when the Oyetola re-election campaign trail moved to Odo-Otin Local Government Area. At the Olokuku of Okuku’s palace, Governor Sanwo-Olu said the APC and its members were aware of the Oyetola’s outstanding performance hence the commitment to ensure his re-election for a second term. He added that Governor Oyetola had performed creditably well to deserve another term to consolidate on the good works he had started. “We have come to support your son, a governor who is a pride among governors. This is a man whom God has blessed with deep wisdom and wealth of experience, no wonder he is doing wonderfully well. We are proud to be associated with him and he is an example to many of us. “We have come to show you that he is not alone on this journey. By the grace of God, Oyetola will be re-elected come July 16. This election is one that is projected to bring progress to Osun, and to Nigeria as a whole. So, we expect Governor Oyetola’s re-election to come with ease and landslide victory. “If you are privileged to have an uncommon leader, give him all the support possible. If fellow governors can testify that he is a shining light, that should give a fair idea of how uncommon he is…”   Wike’s camp gives ‘Ayu must go’ condition to back Atiku     Yakubu: we’ll beat Ekiti’s record in Osun     ‘SDP candidate will develop Osun’s economy through I.T’   Ganduje said the leadership and members of the party were resolute to deliver Osun for APC. “We are here to give maximum support to our brother, your son, Governor Oyetola. From what we have heard and seen, he has performed excellently well in all sectors, and God has used him to bring social development to Osun within three and a half years. “He has done a lot in education, infrastructure, empowerment, and has built a good relationship with workers, trade unions, traditional institutions among others. This is the confidence we have that it will be a landslide victory for him in the coming election. There is no way this will be an inconclusive election.” Senator Omisore and the APC National Women Leader Betta Edu said the party has put in place necessary mechanisms to ensure free, fair and credible election, saying that victory is assured for the party, in view of the positive feedbacks of its campaigns. “We have heard from our visiting governors what Governor Oyetola represents, and what his re-election presupposes. These words are open challenge to us to do what is right for the sake of Osun and its future,” Omisore added. Governor Oyetola hailed the people for their confidence in, saying their votes in 2018 gave him the privilege to prove his good intentions for the state. He urged them to discern the times and make decisions that can safeguard the future, adding that he is ready to consolidate on the strong progressive foundation he had laid in the last three and a half years.