Maiden champions UAM Tillers from the University of Agriculture, Makurdi will tackle winners of the 2022 Nigerian University Games Association (NUGA) football season, Unilorin Warriors in the round of 16 of the on-going Higher Institutions Football League (HiFL) season. 2021 HiFL finalists AAUA Luminaries of Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba have also been drawn against the LASU Blazers of the Lagos State University. At a draw organised in Lagos where organisers also unveiled new team jerseys to be used from the round of 16 through to the finals, the teams were grouped into four pots for logistical reasons that will ease their movement to honour their games which are scheduled to hold between July and September 2022. “We are now at a very exciting stage of the league Director of PACE Sports and Entertainment Marketing Limited, Sola Fijabi, said .“What was witnessed during the qualifiers was the tip of the iceberg. “ The schools are ready and what we assured lovers of collegiate sports is double excitement. We appreciate the support of NUGA and our sponsors including StanbicIBTC, BOLD and the Lagos State Internal Revenue Services (LIRS) as we strive to deliver value to all our stakeholders,” he added.   Wilder wants to fight winner of Joshua –Usyk rematch     Ejuke: why I joined Hertha Berlin     NPFL: Remo Stars, Kwara United in titanic race for third…   Manager Brand, Events and Sponsorship, StanbicIBTC Oyelakin Omolewu said “we are very proud to be in partnership with HiFL to promote sport activities in the country. Today’s draws was fair and open and we expect to watch some exciting games” Group Marketing Director, Jotna Nigeria (the Lacasera Company) Emmanuel Agu expressed satisfaction with the professionalism in organising the draws. “HiFL is very much organised and what we see here is an outcome of professional planning and I am quite excited seeing the outcomes.” In her comment, Brand Manager, Indomie Relish, Jumoke Aremu, said the brand is glad to support HiFL and any other activity that has to do with talent development in Nigeria. “We are happy to be part of all the games and we will be glad to let everyone know that Indomie is here to stay”. In the other draws, the Sahel zone matches will feature, the defending champions, Unimaid Desert Warriors logging it out with BUK Stallions; FUTMINNA Transformers against KSU Steelers, and KASU Crocs against ATBU Bravehearts. While the Coaster Zone will have UNN Lions against Uniport Sharks; DELSU Titans against IAUE Minders while EKSU Mountaineers battle FUOYE Dazzlers. Reacting to the draws, President of NUGA Emeka Ogbu said: “We are going to give our support more than ever before in every aspect as required to ensure the universities’ participating teams are loyal to the rule of the games.” Matches in the round of 16 will commence in July and run through September when the final four teams will play in a Super Four tournament scheduled for Lagos.