Society watched in amazement over the past week as adherents of a cult, called Whole Bible Believers Church in Ondo State, spurned rescue by the police from apparent captivity and dug in with their suspected captors. It was a state of hypnosis that bordered on the Stockholm Syndrome – that famous psychological condition whereby abused persons develop strong bond with their abusers and sympathise with them, which medics consider to be a coping mechanism. No fewer than 77 persons comprising 26 children, eight teenagers and 43 adults were rescued penultimate Saturday, after being found locked up in the basement of the church located at Valentino area of Ondo township. The victims had allegedly abandoned their homes, with some having disowned parents and other family members to ally with the church. Young ones claimed their parents were not teaching them the way of God, while those who are students had abandoned schooling to hole up in the church basement. They were reportedly kept at the place for more than six months by the church pastor, David Anifowose, and his assistant, Peter Josiah, purportedly awaiting ‘rapture’ that the members were told had been rescheduled to September after an initial April date fell through. The victims were kept in the underground cellar to make them ‘rapturable.’   Rent warning     Solanke at 80     If gold rusts…   The police said initial efforts to probe ongoings at the church were met with physical assault by church members who resisted operatives that had gone there until reinforcements were deployed. Upon freeing the victims from captivity last weekend, the police took the pastor and his assistant into custody, pending their arraignment in court, after conclusion of investigation. The freed captives were restored to their families. But some of the rescued victims reportedly vowed not to leave their pastors behind in detention and insisted on staying behind at the police station until the pastors are let go or they would get raptured together. Ondo State Police Command spokesperson Funmilayo Odunlami confirmed that some of the victims refused to follow their parents after the police asked them to go. “Despite all our attempts and placation, some of the victims refused to go home, saying they were going to stay here. We have a child who said she would follow the Lord and not her parents. She said she was okay staying within the police compound since their pastor is still here,” the spokesperson told journalists. Speaking along the same line, Ondo State women affairs commissioner Julianah Osadahun said the government was baffled by how resolute some of the children were. “We just interviewed some of the children who are between 11 and 17 years old. The way they spoke seems they have been hypnotised… What baffles me as a mother is that these children are already hardened, from the interview we conducted with them. They are indoctrinated,” she said inter alia, adding: “We want to have a database of the children through family tracing so that we can get to how they were hypnotised and indoctrinated. And if they need rehabilitation, then we would have to go legally by taking custody of (them).” Relations as well lamented the apparent hypnosis of their kin. A father based in Ilorin, Kwara State, said his son, a 400-level student of Federal University of Technology, Akure, had kept away from home since the thick of COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 and was discovered to be involved with the controversial church. Efforts to retrieve him failed as he returned to the church when schools resumed and never showed up again at home. Another parent who claimed to be a former member of the church said his 21-year-old daughter refused to eat since Saturday, insisting that the pastor be freed by the police. Another relation who is a sibling to one of the victims said his brother refused to return home since he was freed from captivity, saying he would not leave his pastor alone in detention. The Ondo saga came to light barely three months after another professed clergyman in Ekiti State was busted for camping followers on remote premises in preparation for ‘rapture’ and charging them N310,000 as fare for trans-terrestrial flight. And it is apparently just the tip of an iceberg of personality cults of mass delusion incubating the society. The trend was thought peculiar to a religious persuasion under which ‘torture homes’ were operated as purported rehabilitation centres for deviants, but it is in reality cross-cutting. Besides, it darkly echoes the beginnings of Jim Jones-led Guyana Tragedy of 1978 and how outlaw groups like the Boko Haram took root. Nigeria has enough challenges without society being blown over by mystics and mad messiahs; so efforts should be redoubled by security agents to rout all phony cults.