The governorship election in Osun State is a rematch between two old foes – Governor Gboyega Oyetola, who is the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and his Peoples’ Democratic Party PDP) counterpart, Senator Ademola Adeleke. Both parties seem to have learned from their old mistakes and are ready to give it all to gain the upper hand against each other. TOBA ADEDEJI reports Major contestants in Saturday’s governorship election in Osun State, particularly the two major parties, have been studying the result of the last election in 2018, to fine-tune their strategies for the current election. Political gladiators have employed and engaged pundits to see to the best strategy they can deploy to win the contest, which they say would not be as close as that of 2018. It is a known fact among the progressives that the 2018 contest was a difficult one for the ruling party. This is predicated on the perception of the electorate on some of the policies introduced by the administration of former Governor Rauf Aregbesola. The poor showing of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2018 election has been attributed to a number of factors. This ranges from protest votes against the governing party, to the defection of former Secretary to the State Government, Moshood Adeoti to the Action Democratic Party (ADP). For the main opposition party, the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), the defection of Senator Iyiola Omisore to the Social Democratic Party (SDP), as well as that of Fatia Akingbade to the African Democratic Congress (ADC) was also a major setback. But, major changes have taken place in the last four years that Governor Gboyega Oyetola has been in power. As a result, some of his supporters have predicted a landslide victory for him at the poll. For instance, Oyetola has reversed some of the unpopular policies introduced by Aregbesola which led to protest votes against the party. Among the policies are a single uniform for all students, the reclassification of schools, the merger of schools, a huge debt profile and payment of half salary to civil servants. Oyetola explained during the recent debate that he promised to do the will of the people in 2018. His words: “In 2018, I said I will do the demand of the people, especially the issue of education review. What happened between me and Ogbeni (Aregbesola) was purely on governance. I don’t have animosity against my former boss. The education policy was a recommendation of the people. It is the people that are making an issue out of nothing. Policies are meant to be reviewed over time and there is a difference between policies and legacies.” Indications are that Oyetola will enjoy the power of incumbency in the coming election. Other factors in his favour are the so-called federal might and the support of the APC presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu who is a close associate of Oyetola. But, the cold war between Aregbesola, who is the Minister of Interior and Governor Oyetola would work against the ruling party. So far, the minister is yet to declare his support for Oyetola who was his chief of staff for the eight years he spent as Osun State governor. To worsen matters, Aregbesola’s loyalists within the state chapter of the party created a caucus named The Osun Progressives (TOP). The group, which is chaired by Lowo Adebiyi, has been opposing the Oyetola administration. This got to a point that the group insisted on Moshood Adeoti flying the party’s flag during the party primary. To date, the two sides are yet to reconcile their differences. However, some leaders and members of TOP have been declaring support for Oyetola ahead of the poll. For instance, one of such members, Oladejo Afeez, recently declared his support for Oyetola. He said his decision was informed by a recent directive by Aregbesola that they should work for the APC. Afeez who is the chairman of TOP in Ede said: “Yes, it is true that I, have left TOP together with my people in Ede North Local Government. Aregbesola said we should not work against the APC and that we should not defect to another party. He said we should stay at the party. I will rather stop being in politics than defect to the PDP. “Those people still in TOP that call themselves ‘democrats’ were given money to distribute to people that they want to give empowerment before the election. That is why they are waiting. All the party executives, including the women leaders, have followed me to join Oyetola. If we would all do well since our leader has told us not to work against the party, we should stay in the party and work for the candidate of the party.” Besides, a former speaker of the Osun State House of Assembly, Najeem Salam recently declared that he along with his supporters will support APC to deliver victory for Oyetola. Despite, all these underground reconciliation and alignment within the state chapter of the APC, it is not yet certain that the APC will win the election, because the PDP is ready to give it all that it takes to ensure they carry the day. Adeleke will enjoy the goodwill of his late brother and former governor, Isiaka Adeleke, as well as that of his immediate elder brother, Deji Adeleke, who is the father of popular artiste, Davido. The PDP candidate is also expecting sympathy from the electorate, in the form of protest votes against the government in power, just like in the 2018 election. He is banking on the poor welfare that civil servants experienced during the administration of Aregbesola as a factor to win the election. If Adeleke manages to win the forthcoming election, Ede is going to be pivotal to his aspiration. Ede North and Ede South remain the stronghold of the PDP. The party has been intensifying efforts within the stronghold to win massively there during the election. The PDP flag bearer appears to have the support of all the stakeholders in Ede. For instance, the traditional ruler of the town, Oba Munirudeen Lawal declared to the Muslim faithful at Ede ‘Eid prayer ground on Sallah day that he is fully in support of Adeleke’s candidature. He, therefore, directed townfolks to vote for the PDP candidate. A prominent chieftain of the party in Osun, Dotun Babayemi is all out for Adeleke, canvassing votes and trying to reconcile leaders to support the PDP candidate during the election. Supporters of the PDP believe strongly that Adeleke will defeat Oyetola by a slight margin because of the advantage of incumbency that he will enjoy during the election.   Police arrest fleeing Kuje prison inmate in Ogun     IGP bans spy number plates nationwide     One injured, families escape death as building collapses in…   They maintain that Adeleke has street credibility and has the ability to sway the people with his joyful nature and the dancing skill that he possesses, unlike the candidate of APC who is reserved and calm. They describe Oyetola as an elitist governor who does not understand the problems the current state of the economy has inflicted on the people. But, just like the APC, the PDP is also polarised and this may prove costly for it during the election. For example, former Governor Olagunsoye Oyinlola, PDP Board of Trustees (BOT) member, Shuib Oyedokun, Senator Olu Alabi and many party elders are not in the same camp with Adeleke. This is evident from the meeting that Babayemi held with the elders in Osogbo recently, imploring the elders to support Adeleke. The various political parties will contest for votes from 1,955,657 registered voters across 3,763 polling units across the state. The PDP remains strong in Ede North and Ede South Local Government Areas, which delivered 35,438 votes for the party during the 2018 election, against the APC’s 11,537. Nevertheless, the APC is not leaving anything to chance. It has put up structures to capture votes from the area. Part of the structures that were put in place by APC is the presence of ex-speaker Osun House of Assembly, Adejare Bello who is a member of APC and indigene of the community. Adejare is one of the major rallying points of the APC in Ede. Similarly, Osogbo and Olorunda Local Governments, which have the highest voting population were won by the APC candidate during the last governorship election; he scored 39,633 votes, against the PDP’s 24,349. But, the PDP, which has been working assiduously to win the hearts and minds of the people, appears to be gaining ground in the two local governments because of the passive support of the traditional ruler of Osogbo, the Ataoja of Osogbo, Oba Jimoh Olanipekun. In Ayedaade and Irewole Local Governments, the APC is making frantic efforts to gain the upper hand because of the presence of former Minister of Police Affairs, Jelili Adesiyan; member of the House of Representatives, Taiwo Oluga; Finance Commissioner, Wole Oyebamiji; and Deputy Governor Benedict Alabi in those council areas. However, winning Irewole may be a tall order for the ruling party because the PDP triumphed in that local government with over 3,000 votes in the last governorship election and, from all indications, still wants to repeat the same feat with the support of its senatorial candidate, Lere Oyewumi. Similarly, winning Ifelodun will also be a major challenge for the ruling party, based on the result of the last election, where the APC had 9,882 votes, compared to the PDP’s 12,269. This is in spite of the fact that the immediate past monarch of Ikirun, the local government headquarters, Oba Adedeji was an APC supporter. It was not a mean feat for the PDP because the community used to support the progressives. Our checks suggest that the PDP is making efforts to double the figure this time around. Just like in the last election, local governments in Osun West Senatorial District are favourably disposed to voting for the PDP because of the Osun West agenda. However, APC has the upper hand in Ayedire, Egbedore and Isokan. The party is not relenting, as it is intensifying its campaign in those councils. Nevertheless, the PDP is working assiduously on Iwo, Ola-Oluwa and Ejigbo because they remain the stronghold of the APC, based on the voting pattern in past elections. In Osun Central, Ila remains one of the contentious local governments for the two parties because of the force that they both mount on the ancient community. The PDP picked its senatorial candidate and House of Representatives candidates for the next general elections from the Ila community. This will go a long way for the party to garner votes for the current election using the influence of the duo. Meanwhile, the influence of former Interim National Chairman, Chief Bisi Akande in Ila cannot be disputed. The Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Ismail Omipidan is another influencer in Ila for the APC. The popularity of the PDP is likely to wane in Irepodun, Orolu, Osogbo and Boluwaduro, also in Osun Central, because Oyetola built roads in those communities. Nevertheless, the PDP will rely on its structure in these local government areas. Boripe Local Government, where Oyetola hails from will be swept by APC. But, the party appears to have challenges in the PDP strongholds of Iree and Ada. But, Odo-Otin will be a battleground for both parties. Nevertheless, the incumbent governor might be favoured with votes because the electorate might vote against Adeleke because of the alleged embarrassment of meted out to Prince Oyinlola, who hails from the area. Osun East will be a great determinant for who becomes the next governor of Osun State because of the voting population of the senatorial district. Ife Central Local Government is the third most populous council. This is the domain where APC the National Secretary, Senator Omisore has great influence. Ife East, Ife North and Ife South were all won by the APC during the last election. But, given that the PDP has picked its running mate from the area, it might cause a surprise this time. In Osun East, the PDP is likely to dominate in Obokun and Ori-Ade Local Government Areas. In 2018, it secured 3,000 votes in the area. But, it might be different this time around because Atakunmosa West and Atakunmosa East are a stronghold of the APC which the opposition is struggling to get. There will be a very close contest between the two parties in Ilesha West and Ilesha East, but the APC might triumph in the two local governments because of the support of the monarch and the fact that the ruling party has secured a license to set up a university in the community. In all, the two parties are consolidating on the result of the 2018 governorship election, when the APC secured 36.71 per cent of the votes and the PDP 36.64 per cent.