The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has dismissed reports alleging that it has been factionalised, insisting that it remains united with Mazi Nnamdi Kanu as its leader. The group also described those claiming to be IPOB autopilot groups as fake and must be ignored. In a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, IPOB insisted that Simon Ekpa is not its member and will never be, stressing that “he has sold his soul to the devil and has bitten more than he can chew.” The separatist group also encouraged Igbo youths, religious, market men and women wishing to join the ongoing protest over the alleged murder of Igbo youths in Imo state, but urged for its non-violence. The statement reads in part: “We wish to draw the attention of Sahara Reporters news outlets and some other media houses in Nigeria and the world that IPOB has no faction whatsoever. “Mazi Nnamdi KANU is the only leader in the IPOB therefore, any persons claiming to be IPOB autopilot group is totally fake and must be ignored. Either you’re IPOB or not. “Also, IPOB under the leadership of our great leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU is fully in support of Igbo youths, market men and women, religious men and women who wish to join the ongoing protest for the gruesome murder of Igbo youths by joint militia of Hope Uzodinma in collaboration with Federal Government of Nigeria.   Appeal Court seeks support over post- 2023 elections…     UPDATED: Buhari seeks Justice Ariwoola’s confirmation…     Interstate transporters begin 25 percent fare increase Aug…   “We encourage everyone to show solidarity because it might be you tomorrow. We call our people to carry on with the non-violent, peaceful protest in Imo State. “IPOB has constantly announced that Simon Ekpa is not an IPOB member and will never be because he has sold his soul to the devil and has bitten more than he can chew. 1. IPOB is only ONE body. 2. IPOB has a presence in over 100 Nations 3. IPOB has only one leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. 4. IPOB has an Administrative body called the Directorate Of States (DOS) headed by Mazi Chika Edoziem. 5. In the absence of our Leader, the Head of DOS takes charge of the global movement and family of the Indigenous People of Biafra. Mazi Nnamdi Kanu in his several live broadcast had consistently informed our People that DOS is in charge of this struggle while he leads. 6. ESN is one and under the Command of DOS in the absence of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. “Therefore, IPOB leadership (DOS) wishes to reiterate to Biafrans, lovers of freedom and to the media that IPOB under Mazi Nnamdi KANU has no factions and will not relent in piloting the movement until our leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU is out from DSS dungeon. “Autopiloters are government-sponsored groups paid to Infiltrate IPOB and create an impression that IPOB has faction. “It is on record that the Nigerian Government have in the past sponsored enemies of IPOB to create none existing groups claiming to be genuine IPOB that later fizzle out and IPOB is still matching forward. IPOB is already used by these government agents and the latest group they call “Autopilot”. Let them do jamboree with government funds for the moment before they go the way of others. “As a double agent, Simon Ekpa was paid to issue a jamboree and fallacious sit at home to discourage people from protesting for the murder of 14 innocent youths in Awo-Mmamma. An autopilot is a government-sponsored group that has never given orders to Biafrans before and we would not allow them to do that so long as IPOB exists.”