With the nation now in full electioneering mode, there is no better time to look back over the last sixty years or so, to try and find out what went wrong in our political life with a view to learning from our errors. Some cynics will however argue that we are so far gone down the road to political demise that there is just no point in trying to put our Humpty Dumpty back together again. You don’t even have to be a cynic to endorse this apocalyptic submission. But, before you raise your hands up in despair thinking that what is about to follow is a recitation of the catalogue of woes with which we are now dealing, you can rest assured that you are not about to be smothered under the regurgitation of what is wrong with Nigeria at this particular point in time. This is because such a recitation is likely to be an exercise in futility if only because the list is inordinately long and getting ever longer. There is no doubt that we have been in trouble for a very long time, some would say specifically since 1964 when the first general elections since Nigeria acquired her dubious nation status. Up till then, Nigeria was buoyed up by the euphoria of independence and we could all pretend that even though there were many points of contention, all would be well. The crisis in the Western Region had been more or less contained and the trouble with a census exercise had been swept under the carpet where it has festered and continues to pour venom into our body politic more than fifty years after the first post-independence census. The next attempt to enumerate the Nigerian public is not likely to be more reliable than all the similar attempts which have littered our collective past. It was however clear that it was no longer possible to pretend that all was well with Nigeria when on the eve of the general elections, the NCNC, part of the governing coalition not only broke ranks with the NPC, the senior partner in the coalition but went on to form a very unlikely partnership with the AG. Given the antecedents of these two parties, it was clear that they, in the parlance of Nigeria’s political future were a coalition which was to be left of the political spectrum whilst the other more likely coalition between the NPC and the NNDP, the party which emerged from the split in the AG and another within the NCNC in the West took her place in a distant political right wing position. The rivalry between these two groups could not be tested electorally however as the NCNC/AG (United Progressive Grand Alliance), decided to boycott the elections at the last minute claiming that the electoral body could not, under the circumstances of the day guarantee that the elections would be free and fair. And they had a valid point since their candidates in the North and the West were, in the face of naked intimidation not even allowed to register as candidates. More than a third of the candidates in the North were returned unopposed and thugs operating with the backing of the regional government made sure that registering to vote was a hazardous undertaking in the West. The elections went on regardless and after furious negotiations which included the holding of elections in those areas where elections could not be held in December 1964, the old NPC/NCNC coalition was resumed and the Federation was coaxed back to life. As before, the AG was left out in the cold and facing the crushing challenge of the NNDP in her home region which because of her volatile political climate was referred to as the Wild West. After the great compromise, business went on more or less as usual but underneath all of it there was a raging inferno which was constantly fed with high grade fuel by all the parties concerned. In the meantime, it was a wonder that Nigeria was still being governed in any meaningful way at both the regional and Federal levels. But to all intents and purposes, everything appeared to be normal and people went about their business without the widespread insecurities which should have followed in the wake of the political uncertainties that the nation had to cope with. For most of 1965, there were few signs that the Federation was in any serious danger. Even, the volatile nature of the politics of bitterness which was playing out in the Western Region suited the Federal government right down to the ground and when the imposed NNDP government in the West tried to legitimise itself through blatantly rigged elections, the Federal government stood resolutely behind the her allies, giving the NNDP the confidence, if not the audacity to carry out a civilian coup in the Western Region.   Godwin Kienka: Why Nigerian sports is ‘going round in…     Onyekuru: I could stay in Galatasaray forever     Adesola Adeyemi: My experience on international runway has…   After the farcical elections of 1964, it was clear that any real power in the country resided in Kaduna but that power could only be consolidated with the capture of the Western Region in an election which was scheduled for the later months of the year. This being the case, no stone, legitimate or not was to be left unturned in the bid to decide the political future of  Nigeria in the uncertain terrain of the Western Region. This is why the Sardauna, the de facto leader of the ruling NPC who was not enamoured with the rigours of unruly political campaigns was imported into the region to kick off the electioneering activities of the NNDP in the regional elections. It was clear long before the election that the NNDP had no hope of winning any halfway decent election in the Western Region, unless of course the vote was massively rigged in its favour. After all, the two chief contesting parties, the AG and the NCNC, had come together to fight the election and could call on the NCNC government of the Eastern Region to provide all kinds of logistical support to UPGA in the West. But, the power of incumbency as well as the support of the Federal government meant that the result of the election could not be taken for granted by either side. However, the machinations of the Federal government since the crisis which had fractured the AG in 1962 suggested that the winner of the 1965 election was going to be picked by the Federal government which shows clearly that even under the regional system of government of the day, the wishes of the government at the centre were likely to decide which party was to form regional governments. After all, a state of emergency had been declared in 1962 after the famous fracas in the Western House of Assembly, the uncooperative leaders of the AG including the iconic leader of the party and Leader of Opposition in the Federal Assembly had been sent to cool their heels in prison after being accused of treasonable felony. The victory of the AG in the 1961 regional election had been abrogated and a party which did not even exist at the time of that election was in firm control of all items of authority in the region. UPGA might claim to have the control of power on the streets but this did not amount to a pot of beans in the exalted corridors of power which is why the Premier of the Western Region was no better than an impostor as his authority was not derived from the votes of the people over whom he ruled. As expected, the NNDP was judged by the powers that be to have won the Western Regional election of 1965. The truth as was apparent to anyone who still had vestiges of mental control was that the results were simply announced and did not have any support of the demonstrated reality on ground. The period before the election was fraught as all available organs of brutal government coercion were used to ensure that the only result was going to be victory for the imposed government. The whole process degenerated into a farce complete with a takeover of the government controlled radio station by a very concerned citizen whose sensitive stomach could no longer put up with the fictitious reports of the election with which the government of the day had polluted the airwaves over which the results of the election were broadcast to the people. No lives were lost over the radio station prank but what followed was general mayhem as the people of the Region rose up spontaneously to deal with all the recognized agents of their hated and indeed hateful government. In what was dubbed Operation Wetie, people and properties were doused with petrol and set on fire in an orgy of what the perpetrators were convinced was righteous rage. They must have looked on this exercise as cleansing with fire leading the restoration of the right that had been stolen from them. For weeks, the streets of Western Region were burning and burning out of control as the government put up barricades and refused to be moved by the mayhem on the streets. They refused to make a move, a small move, any move, towards the restoration of normalcy to the tortured region. The Federal government, the same government which had moved very smartly to declare a state of emergency when there was fighting on the floor of parliament in Ibadan in 1962 did not see it fit to take any steps towards dousing the fires which were making a mockery of democracy as well as the security of life and property all over the Western Region. It has been said that the government was in the process of sending in the army to quell the riots when the nation was informed that a military coup had taken place and the Constitution for what it was worth had been suspended and Parliament summarily disbanded. Our first military government was put in place and all political activities were banned. Of course there was no longer room for any form of civil disobedience and after a couple of diehard thugs had been shot down on the street like mad dogs, all the rioting stopped forthwith. The country was settling down to life under the military when a different set of soldiers carried out what has been described as a revenge coup a little over six months later and as the saying goes, the rest is history. Since then, we have been stumbling in the wilderness, looking for peace, stability and progress but as our condition deteriorates perceptibly with every passing year, only goodness knows when we will stumble onto the fertile shores of the Promised land of our dreams.