Founder/Group Managing Director, SecureID Group, Mrs. Kofo Akinkugbe has lauded Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu over the relaunch of the state Residents Cards, saying it will further enhance seamless delivery of government. Speaking in Lagos at the weekend, she said: “SecureID, as one of the strategic partners of this project, is proud of your numerous achievements particularly in the areas of technology and digitisation of the state which this project seeks to address. We appreciate the opportunity given to us to provide our expertise, specifically in manufacturing of the card which involves embedding multi-application chip modules, personalisation of payment and biometric data and fulfillment of the multi-purpose high security Lagos Residents smart card,” she concluded. Mrs. Akinkugbe also noted that as a partner, SecureID will remain resolute in its commitment to partner with the state to further develop Lagos with relevant technology and digital solutions that will ensure seamless delivery of government promises to the residents of the “Centre of Excellence”.   ‘Over 90% of telecom operators risk extinction’     Report: Binance controls 47% crypto trading     Zenith Bank ranks number one bank in Nigeria with $2.75b…   On how the Residents Cards will impact government policies and benefit residents Mrs. Akinkugbe said the cards will ensure the harmonisation of the unique Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of the state and enhance the implementation of the state’s THEMES agenda; THEMES – Traffic Management and Transportation, Health and Environment, Education and Technology, which will in turn fulfill the yearnings to make Lagos a 21st Century Economy in entertainment, tourism, governance and security. According to the group, the re-launch of the card is yet another landmark achievement which further showcases the state as a trailblazer among the league of states in the federation. Established in 2011, the Lagos State Residents Registration Agency, introduced the Lagos State Residents Card to integrate the residents of Lagos state into e-government initiatives to enable the services provided by government to be fully utilized and also provide an accurate picture for government policy and planning. SecureID Limited is Africa’s industry leader in Card manufacturing, personalisation/fulfillment and digital solutions, offering superior end-to-end Identity management and digital security solutions to public sector, private sector, finance sector, telecom sector and retail sector.