I have met Governor Shettima at different fora and I must say I have been very much attracted to his personality. He is a leader whose vision is broad and whose hands are large enough to embrace everybody.ý Earlier, the Archbishop of Maiduguri Diocese, Bishop Oliver Dashe, had in his introductory comments, spoken of how Governor Shettima had been rebuilding churches destroyed by Boko Haram, supporting activities of Christian bodies for all denominations and being fair to Christians in the affairs of government” – The Daily Post, 26 November, 2017 quoting Archbishop Ignatius Kaigama, President, Catholic Bishops’ Conference of Nigeria, and his brother, ArchBishop, Oliver Dashe, of Maiduguri Diocese. I perfectly understand, and do appreciate, the position of Christians who are genuinely miffed in regard to APC’s Muslim – Muslim presidential ticket. But that is when you think only as a Christian, and perhaps, momentarily forgetting that your country, Nigeria, is in such dire straits that you can, with considerable justification, say it is verily on the verge of becoming a failed state. You can, at that stage, be as justifiably  emotional, angry, vitriolic even iconoclastic, as one Pastor Sam Aiyedogbon was this past week when he appeared on the interview segment of Arise TV’s Morning Show programme. The way he  spoke, you  could see he has obviously shed his pastoral garb, and transmogrified to a political consultant, from which new position he now speaks like he had gone round all Christians  in the country to ascertain how they would vote in the 2023 Presidential election. The sheer Babel that  has descended on the country this past one week shows that Pastor Aiyedogbon is certainly not alone in his rabid posturing at a time when what is called for is a sober reflection on the current Nigerian condition – no thanks to the Muhammadu  Buhari government’s untramelled iniquitous mode of  governance that places a section, a minority at that, over all others in every part of government which  makes everybody, particularly  Christians, see in the horizon, the possibility of an attempt at Islamising Nigeria, if not by the President himself, but obviously by elements who, leveraging on his insular government, now do whatever it is they like, with law enforcement agencies becoming nothing more than onlookers. When the Fulani Nationality Movement is not threatening war on Nigeria, with both the IGP and the SSS Director- General looking askance, and not once inviting them for questioning, murderous herdsmen – turned killers, and kidnappers for ransom, are in all nooks and crannies of the country unleashing mayhem, whether at Owo, in Shiroro, Kuje or elsewhere, gruesomely killing in numbers. Worse is it the fact that even as they attack in hundreds, never is a single one of them arrested. So nauseating is this fact that not a few are now  asking why the police, the military and assorted government forces could so heavily descend on IPOB and Igboho but not on the ubiquitous marauders from the North and outside Nigeria who have turned Nigeria to worse than Somalia. Nor has it not been suggested that these are organised crimes, complete with controllers who are amassing funds for the war they have long promised. This is the only way one can understand how  something that started out as ragtag  essemble over 10 years ago have almost bested our fighting forces, especially anigerian army that  is widely respected and once eagerly craved by the UN for all its military engagements all over the world. Why, for instance, would the  C – in – C, not give the military the directive to go and free the Nigerians kidnapped from the Abuja- Kaduna train as far back as Monday, 27 March, 22 rather than his almost impossible go and “wipe out terrorists” command of last week? Who in these circumstances would not understand the fears of the average Nigerian Christian for that time in the near future when both the President and his vice are both Muslims? But that exactly  is where the error originates from as all that has nothing to do with religion but Fulani exceptionalism. As you read this, moslems are also being killed in their thousands especially in the North where some people have already fled to neighbouring countries, just as hundreds of thousand Moslems in IDP camps with their villages and lands already taken over by marauding Fulani herdsmen who never get questioned by Nigerian so- called, law enforcement officers. Also, despite the lies of presidential spokespersons and the minister of information, large parts of states like Niger, and Zamfara, are now directly under the control of Boko Haram and bandits who permanently govern them and,  like an elected government, collect takes from the people. Information has it that in some parts of Kaduna State, rather than the Nigerian police, elements of Ansaru, an Islamic fundamentalist Jihadist militant organisation, now provide ‘security’, and collect huge taxes  from farmers to be able to go to their farms. Given these extant circumstances what should concern Nigerians the most, rather than raising hell over religion , or even ethnicity,  should be the enthronement, in 2023, of  a government that would rule for all, and not for only a section of the country. To do this, a political party would have to win election, and winning an election is, as the saying goes, a matter of numbers.  What the presidential candidate of the APC  did in opting for governor Shettima as running mate, therefore, is to have on the ticket, a running mate who has not only demonstrated competence during his 8 years as governor of Bornor state, but is  well known to be very emphatetic to Christians as he  showed in re-building  churches that were burnt, indeed obliterated, by Boko Haram, as well as sponsoring many Christians  on pilgrimage, and who is also more than capable of attracting votes in large numbers in the North from where comes the candidate’s main opponent, the equally formidable Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. I, therefore,  expect any sober Christian,  weighing in on this matter of a Muslim – Muslim ticket, to ask who, or which Christian Northern member of the APC, could appropriately fit the bill, rather than simply be opposing  for the sake of opposition. There are, without a doubt, many of such but who, for one reason, or the other couldn’t have  been chosen. Let us now critically, and quite objectively, interrogate such individuals, again, bearing in mind the very crucial question of that Christian APC chieftain who, in a Muslim dominated North, will be able to attract votes in the quantum required by a southern presidential candidate to win a presidential election as election is not analogous to Olympic games in which participation is more for the mere honour  (of participation) than for winning.   . In doing this, we should remember that of the 11 names submitted to the presidential candidate by Engr Babachir Lawal, who chaired the candidate’s Planning and Strategy committee of the Tinubu Campaign Organisation saddled with the responsibility – but who has since Senator Shettima’s announcement been shedding crocodile tears – only the names of two Christians appeared. Now to the possible Christian VP candidates: Babachir Lawal Lawal is no doubt a respected and  very experienced professional, and a good friend of the presidential candidate. He is also a former Secretary to the government of the ,Federation.  He should, however,  be the very first person to object, were he to have been nominated.  This is because his candidature would have had a k- leg, arising from  his yet to be rested grass – gate court case. Otherwise, both the media and  political opponents would simply have eaten him raw. He is, therefore, very much out of contention as, rather than be an asset, he would have fatally impacted the ticket. BOSS MUSTAPHA Lawyer and  politician, Mustapha is  the suave and decent, incumbent Secretary to the the Government of the Federation (SSG). Unfortunately, he comes from Adamawa state, the same state  as the presidential candidate of the PDP. For a certainty, he wont be in any position to attract enough votes, not just in his home state,  but elsewhere in the North, for a candidate who is very desirous of victory. Governor Simon Lalong Another very  decent gentleman and experienced politician, serving his second term as governor of Plateau state  but whose reach, being a minority, would surely hamper his ability to attract significant votes in the crucial Northwest and Northeast regions with very high voting population.  Yakubu Dogara  A former Speaker of the House of Representatives, and of a minority tribe in Bauchi state, he has. since leaving office, literally been fighting for his political life. He is obviously not the man to compliment a candidate who has set his eyes on huge votes from a region from where his most potent opponent comes from. These observations should not, in any way, be seen as detracting from the incredible worth of these highly regarded  chieftains of the APC, whose critical support, one and all, is very important, and will be much needed for the party’s victory in the election. Another unavoidable area to examine is: who is this Muslim Vice- Presidential candidate over whom there has so much needless fuss? Where is he coming from, and with what track record? Fortunately, we have, among others,  the views of no less a Christain personage than that of the respected Borno state Chairman  of the Christian Association of Nigeria, (CAN), Bishop Naga Williams Mohammed to rely on.   Concerning Senator Kashim Shettima, the bishop said the following and that was far back in 2017: “Governor Shettima, in the history of Borno, is the only Governor that has sponsored the highest number of Christian Pilgrims every year since 2011. When Gwoza people were driven from their ancestral homes and they fled to Maiduguri, the Governor personally came to CAN Centre in Jerusalem ward two times, in June and July 2014. He gave N10 million for their upkeep. By the end of October 2014 when the IDPs from Gwoza increased to 42,000 in that camp alone, he came again and gave another N10 million. He also gave  N5 million for Christians from Borno who fled to Cameroon to be returned home. He gave another N5 million for non-indigenes who fled to Cameron to come back to Nigeria, and directed the Borno State Emergency Management Agency, SEMA to be supplying food directly to the IDPs in under the Christian leadership”. He also added that, in two instalments, Governor Shettima gave the CAN leadership N205M to rebuild the churches that were burnt by Boko Haram. Is that the man over whom some people are shouting themselves hoarse for reasons of religion, or they are merely, coyly campaigning for the political parties they belong to or support?   Why represent the National Water Resources Bill?     President Buhari can have state police as lasting legacy     Is presidential election an Olympic event in which…   Does Senator Kashim Shettima or Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the Presidential candidate, whose wife is a pastor of the Redeened Christian Church of God, look like people who could think of Islamising Nigeria? As I have indicated earlier, I cannot blame Christians because a lot has happened in this country in the last few years of the Buhari administration to make Nigerians honestly fear. For instance, it is well known that  the primary objective of both Boko Haram and ISWAP, both of which the Nigerian military has been unable to finally defeat, and thousands of whose members are being aggressively rehabilitated under a de- radicalisation programme, is the Islamisation of Nigeria as they have severally said. Added to that is the fact that murderous Fulani herdsmen literally do whatever it is they like, completely unchecked, just as bandits kill, maim and kidnap as they wish.   These are the factors needlessly fuelling the opposition to a Muslim – Muslim ticket. It is not that Nigerian Christians do not know that Tinubu,  whose wife is a pastor, does not carry religion on his sleeves or that Shettima has been anything other than a friend, supporter and financier of Christians as well as their causes. Rather, it is President Muhammadu Buhari who has given the complainants the reasons for their objection, having  unfortunately mismanaged the Nigerian diversity. Or was it not only in 2011, a mere 12 years ago, that Mallam Nuhu Ribadu of the ACN, a Muslim, chose the banker, Fola Adeola, another Muslim, as his running mate without Nigerians  raising any eyebrow whatever? That is, in fact, not to go all the way back 30 years  when Chief MKO Abiola and Ambassador Babagana Kingibe, ran on a Muslim-Muslim ticket, and won the 1993 presidential election. Unfortunately, between 2015 when President Buhari came into office, and now, so much water has passed under the bridge that today, Nigeria has become completely run down by a combination grinding  poverty, an indescribable insecurity, but much more, a fractured inter- ethnic relationship the type of which Nigeria has never experienced in its entire history. It is important to let our protesting pastors know the objective  Nigerian  political realities which the APC cannot afford to disdain in choosing its Vice- presidential candidate, especially, after having elected Ashiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu,  a Muslim from the South as its Presidential candidate. That is presented below as brilliantly captured by a friend of mine: “I lived and worked in the North for a considerable period of time. I know that it is largely assumed that most Northern Christians are Middle Belters, even if they reside in Sokoto but below is Nigeria’s political reality: Christian Northern states – Benue, Taraba and Adamawa are  ALL NON-APC states, going by their respective state governments; Christian states in the South East are mostly NON -APC  states judging by the people’s sentiment, and past voting pattern. For instance, most of them  voted President Goodluck Jonathan by almost 90 per cent in 2011. Christian states in the South South are no different, being  largely NON – APC states, judging by the state governments in the region. Southwest Christians are, of course, mostly APC, judging by their state governments, and their progressive voting pattern, going back more than half a century. Sans the Southwest, Nigerian Christian states can reasonably  be designated as PDP states. We are here discussing APC and its chances of victory at the 2023 Presidential election and as we learn in Politics 101,the primary objective of a political party is to win elections, and then, to use that power to improve the lot of the people through a judicious allocation of state resources. Therefore, APC like every other right-thinking political party, the world over,  is in politics to win. It is not in politics for the mere fancy of it, or to  please some people who, incidentally, mostly belong to opposing political parties, anyway. Who then, should APC try to please in the choice of its Vice Presidential candidate from the North, when Christians there, as in the South, mostly vote for the opposition party? The party is also aware that for some historical, and primordial reasons, some ethnic groups  would not vote for the APC candidate, even if he chose Bishop Hassan Kukah as his running mate”. That said, it is apposite to further expatiate on the very unfortunate circumstances that have seen a country of over 200M people, in Black Man’s most populous nation on earth, reduce an election which is guaranteed to be so consequential it will impact her far into the second half of this century, to mundane issues of religion and ethnicity, especially, at a time a full- blooded Nigerian, Olukemi Olufunto Badenoch, is  in the running for the Prime ministership of  United Kingdom, that very country that colonised Nigeria. If that does nothing else it should, at least, tell us exactly where Nigeria currently finds itself. It  can bear a repetition, in fact for the  umpteenth time, that so much did I admire, and believed, in then candidate Muhammadu Buhari that I wrote in 2014, well ahead of the APC presidential primaries that:”Nigeria, in its current dire straits, needs Buhari more than he needs Nigeria.” The quote was later echoed in a book by  his friend, the late Professor Tam David West, when he wrote in his book: “Buhari -The Politics Of Age: “Nigeria, in its current dire straits needs Buhari more than he needs Nigeria.” -Femi Orebe – “The Nation On Sunday”, September 28, 2014, Page 183 . Unfortunately, President Buhari  has not justified Nigerians expectations but  has  demonstrated “an unbending and unyielding pandering to tribe and religion” to quote a friend,  all the while making short shrift of everything the generality of Nigerians want. I give instances. To ensure that murderous Fulani herdsmen cannot be easily smoked out of other peoples’ communities, and forests, which had become the hideouts from which they launch their daily killing and kidnapping escapades, President Buhari saw to it that state Police did not see the light of day. That in spite of the support of most of the 36 state governors. That is not all. To further concretise their official protection, “the Inspector General of Police, IGP Ibrahim K. Idris NPM, mni, on 21st February, 2018 directed the Commissioners of Police of all the State Commands of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja and their Supervising Assistant Inspectors General of Police of the Twelve Zonal Commands in the Country; to immediately commence simultaneously throughout the Country, the disarmament and recovery of prohibited firearms, ammunition and weapons in the possession of all suspected Militias, Bandits, vigilante groups, Neighbourhood watch and other groups or Individual(s) or Bodies bearing prohibited firearms and ammunition, illegal weapons and lethal devices whether locally fabricated, modified or otherwise fashioned to kill or that can cause harm or injury to persons or that can cause panic, fear, apprehension, security breach, breach of Peace or that can cause threat to law and order anywhere in the Country”. Good as that looks, while all these guns were withdrawn from the millions of  Nigerians having them for peaceful purposes, Fulani herdsmen as well as bandits, even boys  looking no older than 16 years, are today, everywhere carrying AK47 all over the country, be it on city streets, village alleys or in the deep forests;  the  very reason they were able to commit their holocausts in Owo, in Shiroro, on the Abuja – Kaduna  train etc. As you read this, not a single one of these irritants, who attack in hundreds,  has been reported arrested. Nor is the Buhari government done yet. Nigerians saw how aggressively RUGA, cattle colonies and a National Water Resources Bill were being pursued- the last remains a cat with nine lives, having just been represented to the National Assembly. Indeed, at a time, President Buhari even gave his Attorney – General the marching orders to gazette a no longer existing grazing routes,  just so  Fulani herdsmen  could very easily seize other peoples’ ancestral lands. While all these are happening, worsened by Northerners having a proponderance of all the consequential appointments in the country, President Buhari has stood ramrod against restructuring, which all Nigerians, except the Northwest, want even calling its advocates “naive and dangerous”. He even proudly told Nigerians that he did not read the report of the 2014 National Confab. It is the inequity that Christians see at the highest level of  government that Nigerians should hold squarely responsible for the outright Babel the country has become since the presidential candidates of the two leading political parties named their running mates, rather than thanking both parties for attempting to kill off our two demons of religion and ethnicity both of which have retarded the country. We must put the responsibility for this all- round mayhem: the killings, the kidnappings, the darkness,  the long fuel queues, the strikes  and all the indescribable fear permeating the entire nation, squarely where it belongs and these pentecistal pastors should, please not add, to the utter bedlam convulsing the nation. This is, after all,  an election,and everybody  should just go and vote his/her conscience. We need not be at daggers drawn, nor should we give those who had long threatened war on Nigeria, the flimsiest excuse to go and rouse the sleeper cells which they have, allegedly, planted all over the country. Equally, we must all refrain from tempting any anti- democratic groups who may see these times as being ideal to foist on Nigeria, things we would all come to regret dearly. Therefore, our so – called “genuine heaven- bound Christians” should please, in the name of God, do no more than plan towards casting, and protecting their votes, come February, 2023, while the Almighty God, in His infinite mercy, does the very best for Nigeria. Enough of the harangue, the call to arms, and all the hell raising by anybody, or group of persons.