The Plateau Police Command has banned operation of tricycle otherwise known as Keke NAPEP ahead of Eid-El-Kabir celebration. It also stated the ban on the use of motorcycle otherwise known as aOkada is still in force within the Jos and Bukuru metropolis. The Commissioner of Police Bartholomew Onyeka also assured the public of proactive and adequate security ahead of the Sallah celebration. The Command in a statement by the Command’s Public Relations Officer, DSP Alfred Alabo, explained: “The Commissioner of Police Plateau State Command in it’s quest to have a hitch free Sallah celebration has fine tuned strategies to ensure a crime free Eid-El-Kabir celebration across the State. ” In view of the above, the command wishes to solicit the support and cooperation of the peace loving people of Plateau State in the maintenance of law and order as they have always done during festivities.   BREAKING: Panic as fire guts tank farm in Delta     Buhari arrives Daura for Sallah celebration     JJC was not a nobody   ” Also the command wishes to remind members of the public that, the ban on the sale of fire works such as knockout, bangers and other explosives is still in force and violators will face the full wrath of the law. “Parents and guardians are required to counsel their children and wards not to engage in drugs/substance abuse as well as any other form of anti social activities. “The members of the public should also note that, there is a total ban on the use of tricycle popularly known as (Keke) during these period of the celebration within Jos metropolis and Bukuru area of the State. “There is suspension of the operation of tricycles on the Sallah day, the ban on the sales and use of fireworks such as knockout, bangers and other explosives is still being enforced and violators will face the wrath of the law. Vehicles must be packed 500 metres away from the worship centre/praying grounds. “The ban on the use of motorcycles is still in force within the Jos and Bukuru metropolis, worshippers going to prayer must avail themselves to security search by approved agencies.”