The Lagos-Ibadan Expressway is vital in many ways. It is the major route to the northern, southern and eastern parts of the country. The oldest expressway in the country, it was inaugurated in August 1978, during the military era. Sadly, its expansion has been delayed over the years. One thing constant occurence on the road is that as early as 4am daily, most commuters, who barely had a good night rest, are already on the road to avoid its perenial gridlock. Daily interruption of sleep, experts say, is not healthy for the body, but that is what commuters experience because of the twin problems of laxity on the part of the contractor and government which, from all indications, has lost control of supervising Julius Berger, the contractor handling the road. It has become normal for the contractor to narrow the road anytime without putting a sign or notice to inform millions of commuters. Professionals say Julius Berger is supposed to develop the alternative roads by Mikano and Warewa, leading to the cattle market, to make for easy movement but nothing has been done. Commuters, who spoke to The Nation, wondered if the contractor could do this in its home country, Germany, and get away with it. They berated the Federal Government for allowing a foreign firm to punish her citizens against international best practice. The 127.6-kilometre-long expressway connecting Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, and Lagos, Nigeria’s largest city, observers say, has become synonymous with delays running into hours, lone and fatal accidents, fuel tankers tipping, fire outbreaks and craters on the road. Commuters also contend with highway robbers and petty thieves because the perennial traffic provides a cover for them. President Goodluck Jonathan kicked off the reconstruction of the expressway 10 years ago, but it was later abandoned. Even in its  records, this must be the longest job for Julius Berger, which is losing its reputation as a giant in roadworks. The Muhammadu Buhari-led government inherited the road in 2015, but could not complete it as promised, until its first term expired.The government is relying on the Sukkuk Fund and the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority fund (NSIA) to complete the road. Menwhile, motorits suffer such that travelling from Lagos to Ibadan has become nightmarish, with the attendant dangers to life and property. The construction has been described as one of the most-expensive in the world, with periodic variations by the contractors with government’s nod. The expressway has become a death trap for many, with long travelling hours experience for motorists and road users alike. We have heard of heart-rending stories of how a one-hour journey from Lagos to Ibadan turned to several hours of sufferings. The gridlock on the expressway got worse penultimate Friday as travellers struggled to leave town for the holidays. From the Old Toll Gate to Magboro, Ogun State, was blocked and vehicular movements were at a standstill after impatient motorists and commercial drivers drove against traffic. On Thursday, The Nation noted that the traffic on the expressway resurfaced after the resumption of construction at the Otedola/Secretariat end of the road. At OPIC and Kara cattle market of not more than 100 metres, motorists spend about an hour and half to scale through.The situation has been compounded by the heavy rainfall in the last few days, which affected some sections of the road; as vehicles slow down to avoid potholes.   UPDATED: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd     Ondo lawmaker, farmers protest alleged forceful farmland…     BREAKING: Buhari unveils new NNPC Ltd   Commuters wondered why the government was not showing concern for the plight of the road users as there has been reported cases of head-on collision. A civil engineer, Afolabi Olatunde, berated the government for punishing the citizens through the contractor. He said Julius Berger’s action on the road was a sign of compromise by the supervising ministry as alternative routes, laybys, towing vehicles for broken down trucks and tankers were nonexistent. According to him, until there is a real cleansing in the public service, Nigeria is doomed. A motorist, Kazeem Adeoti, said he left Mowe at 4.20am to get to his office at Ajah but the traffic trapped him for four hours. A passenger from Arepo, Sadiat Salako, pleaded with the government to get the contractor to put all their might in the construction to alleviate their suffering. According to her, the stress commuters go through can lead to serious health implications. She advised fellow commuters to do checks to ascertain their health status. Another motorist, Onwudiwe Innocent, who drove against traffic, said he took the decision because he “had no other choice”. “I can’t afford to stay for longer hours in the traffic. The traffic officials have no choice than to allow us to pass,” he added. Some commuters, including children, on Tuesday at Arepo end of the expressway,  heading towards Lagos, resorted to walking, as they could not find a bus to convey them. Meanwhile, the gridlock got hawkers excited, as they made brisk business as most of them sold out their products. Some of them had to deposit their phones with distributors of soft drinks, water and other snacks to have access to the products as a result of the high demand by commuters. A man hawking sausage, Uche Ndukwe, claimed he sold three cartons on Tuesday, adding that without traffic, he might still be struggling with a carton. Every other day there are reports of robberies and accidents with lives lost as a result of craters and non-power supply on the road, still nothing concrete is done. Responding to inquiries by The Nation as to why the contractor was not working at night to speed up the construction of the road, a senior officer who pleaded anonymity, cited insecurity. He added that the government did not have money nor were provisions made on the contract to pay ransom for kidnapped workers. “Right now, nobody is sure of anything except that the construction will last for six months but residents on that axis and commuters are wondering how they can tolerate this insensitive contractor and government for six months at the scale as there is a sense of urgency from them,” he said. Another common feature is that every other day, is that sometimes vehicles break down and take long hours or days to be towed off the road because the firm does not have a ready­to­go towing vehicle which is embedded in the contract.