A 68-year-old suspected cultist, Okoh Peter, and five others have been arrested by police in Edo State, with arms and ammunition also recovered from them. Edo Deputy Police Public Relations Officer, Jennifer Iwegbu, yesterday in Benin, the state capital, stated that the feat was in view of the determination of the Abutu Yaro-led command to check the menace of cultism and unnecessary killings in Edo. Iwegbu said: “Men of Anti-Cultism Unit of Edo State Police Command have been working round the clock with area commands and divisions to ensure that the ugly trend is stopped. “The move by the police has yielded tremendous success during operations at Ekiadolor, with men on routine township patrol within Ekowe community and environs, intercepting some suspected cultists at the community’s youth leader’s house. “The suspects, on sighting the police operatives, took to their heels, from the scene of their unlawful assembly. The action attracted the attention of the operatives and they gave them a hot chase, which led to the arrest of these suspects: Andrew Owhoyavwosa, 22; Joseph Meshak, 25; Osazee Solomon, 35; Godswill Obasohan, 25; Charles Odiase, 52; and Okoh Peter, 68. “On-the-spot search of the scene led to the recovery of these items: two locally-made single-barrel guns, one locally cut-to-size single-barrel gun, 30 live cartridges, one first-aid box, kolanuts, eggs, cowries, one dead chicken, seven mobile telephone handsets and cash of N37,000.”   Niger orders suspension of mining activities in three…     Catholic Church denies abandoning victims of Owo terror…     Expectations high to see you deliver, Osinbajo tells new…   The deputy PRO also quoted Edo commissioner of police as directing the deputy commissioner in charge of the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) to carry out a discreet investigation, with the aim of arresting other members of the dreaded group terrorising Edo. Meanwhile, operatives of the command, in collaboration with local vigilance members, while on routine patrol along Igbe Road in Auchi, headquarters of Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo intercepted a motorcyclist, who acted suspiciously. Iwegbu said: “In an attempt to stop the rider by the operatives, he fired a gunshot in an attempt to scare the team of operatives to enable his escape, but was subdued and arrested. “On the spot search led to the recovery of one locally-made cut-to-size single-barrel gun, one live cartridge, one expended cartridge and one motorcycle, with registration number BEN 316 QP. “During preliminary investigation, the suspect confessed to being a member of the dreaded Vikings Confraternity. Investigation is still on. The suspect will be charged to court, at the end of investigation.” The deputy PPRO also quoted Edo police commissioner as assuring residents of the state that the command would not relent in its efforts to rid Edo of Criminal elements and their cohorts, while enjoining them to continue to collaborate with the police by way of providing prompt, useful and credible information that would lead to the arrest of criminal elements in the state.