Former Chairman of Police Service Commission (PSC) Chief Simon Okeke has blamed rising cases of kidnapping on incompetence of service providers and other stakeholders in the telecommunication industry. He said it was indictment on the stakeholders to claim expertise in their fields when kidnappers could comfortably abduct their victims and negotiate for ransom without being located. Speaking to our correspondent on phone, Okeke regretted that the situation had made kidnapping lucrative as those who called themselves guru in telecommunications appear confused watching hoodlums have their way undisturbed on daily basis. He said: “Someone will be kidnapped and the kidnappers call their victim’s family, negotiate for so much money and will never be located. It is an indictment on those who claim to be experts. I feel disappointed that this is going on in Nigeria. I don’t know about other countries.   How to watch BBNaija season 7 on GOTV, other platforms     Troops rescue 22 abducted Niger victims     You are a terrible liar, Tinubu lashes Atiku   “Those that are experts on security issues should do more work on kidnapping and negotiation for ransom. Once they are able to identify the kidnappers during their negotiations and deal with them, kidnapping will certainly reduce.” The ex-Police boss however commended Anambra Governor Chukwuma Soludo for the various security strategies he had deployed to save lives and property in the State. “Security is costly and financial resources are required to secure lives and property. I think Governor Soludo is trying. He has tried to raise money from private individuals who have responded comfortably. “A lot of security challenges are going on especially about those unknown gunmen or whatever you call them. I’m satisfied with what the Governor has done so far, trying to dislodge the unknown gunmen in forests, bushes and all the enclaves where they are. ” I must tell you that in a little way I give the Governor my own advice including the Commissioner of Police, Director of State Service (DSS) and the Commander, Onitsha Garrison. I do speak with them and we discuss from time to time. They are all very much concerned in security of the State,” he said.