Vegetables are plants that provide a different range of nourishment to the body. When cooked, it can help to keep appetite in check. It’s necessary to consume diets rich in vegetables because they make the skin look well nourished and healthy. Some of the healthiest vegetables good for consumption include; *Spinach: This vegetable tops the chart as one of the nutrient-dense ones. It is commonly known as “green” and can be used to prepare diverse meals like sauce, porridge and more. It provides more protein, carbohydrates, fats, and almost all vitamins and minerals. It has beneficial effects on cardiovascular health, diabetes, and mental health. This vegetable can also be used raw as part of a salad or cooked, boiled, and steamed. *Carrots: Carrot (Daucus carota) is a root vegetable often claimed to be the perfect health food. Orange may be their best-known color, but they also come in other colours depending on where they are grown. The fiber in carrots can help keep blood sugar levels under control. And they’re loaded with vitamin A and beta-carotene, which there’s evidence to suggest can lower your diabetes risk. Carrots also have calcium and vitamin K, both of which are important for bone health. It is very good for consumption and can be put in foods like sauce and salads.   Daily-Need donates medical equipment to LUTH, LASUTH     AHMSG lauds Richen, seeks more collaborations     Why LASUTH is helping Nigeria address shortage of…   *Garlic: (Allium sativum), is used widely as a flavoring in making foods like salad dressings sauces, vegetables, meats, soups, and stews. but it is also used for medicinal purposes. Garlic improves immunity, stabilise blood sugar levels, and support heart and brain health. High doses of garlic supplements have been shown to increase antioxidant enzymes in humans as well as significantly reduce oxidative stress in people with high blood pressure. However, if you eat too much of it, it may cause side effects like bad breath, acid reflux, digestive issues, and an increased risk of bleeding. *Broccoli: Broccoli is a cruciferous vegetable that vaguely resembles a miniature tree. It belongs to the plant species known as “Brassica oleracea”. The parts that grow above the ground are used to make medicine. One to two servings of broccoli per week is definitely something that we recommend as part of a healthy diet to promoting heart health. *Pumpkin leaves: Pumpkin leaf is a nutrient-dense food that has low calories. The lower calories make it an ideal weight-loss food. Pumpkin leaves are high in essential vitamins such as A and C. While vitamin A improves eyesight and promotes healthy skin and hair. Pumpkin leaves can be made as a soup, added to salads, made as a dessert or eaten raw. It is essential to make sure the leaves are not overcooked to prevent the nutrients from being destroyed. * Water leaf: Water leaf is an edible leafy vegetable that belongs to the Portulacea family. Research indicates that eating a diet rich in vitamin C reduces the risk of developing Alzheimer’s disease and slows age-related cognitive decline. For more effective results, the leaf should be washed and properly squeezed to extract the juice which has to be taken orally. This vegetable is also widely believed to boost both male and female fertility because it increases blood flow to the sexual organs, improves libido, serves as an aphrodisiac, and boosts ovulation in women.