The President, Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB), Mr. Rotimi Edu, believes insurance firms should not be allowed to die. In this interview with Omobola Tolu-Kusimo, he implores the government to intervene and support ailing underwriting firms, as it did to problematic banks. The National Insurance Commission three weeks ago cancelled the licence   of two insurance firms, Niger Insurance Plc and Standard Alliance Insurance Plc. What is your take on this? I do not think there is much about the cancellation, but what I feel and have being agitating is that cancellation usually has a run on the insurance industry. I said it when we had a meeting with the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance, that when banks are failing, the government comes to their rescue. I have also discussed this with the Commissioner for Insurance that we should seek a way to penetrate the government. A company like Niger Insurance should not be allowed to die. A company like Industrial and General Insurance (IGI) is also struggling, the only thing that is saving that company is that it has a lot of investments. but these investments are not easily convertible to cash. So, if at the end of the day, the government comes in and save these companies, appoints technocrats and professionals to reshape them very well, it is better than withdrawing their licences. This is because most of the companies are composite, they sell life policies, which are long-term investments. How are you addressing insurance penetration that has remained very low? If you go back and check my thrust of office as the President of the NCRIB, which is brokers’ centricism, it is the way of deepening insurance penetration.What I have seen is that we come and talk, yet, we do not put action on the talks. I micro it to brokers, but people are talking about the entire market. We need to do a lot of penetration. People would be surprised that I took my members in Lagos, for a walk from our secretariat to the Third Mainland Bridge. That day, my company did 2,500 hand bills and distributed 1,800. Following that, I also tried to use sport as a means of deepening penetration. We have to think outside the box, not just coming all the time talking to ourselves, saying the same thing over and over again. When we went to attend the last British Insurance Broker’s Association (BIBA) conference, John Major came to address the brokers, the former United Kingdom Prime Minister David Cameron also addressed the conference.  Their coming was a diversion from the usual form of professionals talking to themselves. We should create a diversion to be able to penetrate. In another three weeks, we are going to put about 2,800 students in the arena of the Lagos Lawn Tennis Club to mentor  on insurance. This is because they will grow and be in one company or the other. This is what I call deepening penetration. To deepen penetration, we need to look out for non-professionals. Since I took office and we started visitation, there are three major people that we have found in any company handling insurance. They are the accountants, managing directors and administrators. So, we have spoken to the Institute of Chartered Accountants, architects, because of buildings and they have asked us to come and talk to them during their annual conference.We would not stop there; we would also meet many other professional bodies. I started with the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry. I have the vision that we should take ourselves beyond our shore. We need to think openly. We should distinct ourselves and use our vision to achieve our mission. Few weeks back, the civil service had the civil service week, I called some companies and told them, let us collaborate and we took the shine of the day. What we did was to present the best civil servant with a vehicle and that became the order of the day. We are also planning to bombard the Lagos State Secretariat to educate the people on insurance. When we leave the Secretariat, we would move to Allen Junction to also educate the people. You never can say, somebody going out that morning may be looking for where to buy insurance and the event would provide the opportunity. But people have apathy to insurance mainly because of claims default by some insurance companies? When we finished the walk on the Third Mainland Bridge, I then said the next place we want to go is Alaba area. Somebody called me and said no, that if we go there, we would be stoned, because insurance has failed them. I then told the Executive Secretary of the NCRIB to write to the executives of Alaba Market to have a meeting with them, so that we can right the wrong. The problem they had arose from the insurance companies that the licences were cancelled. They had already gone there to collect money, arranged insurance and at the end did not pay claims. I am also experiencing that with the Head of Service on their group life which I handled. Last year, when I was to institute the policy, we had to force some insurance companies to pay, or else they would not be on the account again. The Commissioner for Insurance, Mr. Sunday Thomas, tried his best, but the Head of Service insisted they must pay. At the end of the day, we were able to recover a lot of outstanding claims. I think the industry chieftains need to take another look at their actions. With due respect, I do not see any reason anybody would collect premium and would not be able to pay. This game is a law of large numbers. You see everybody in a jeep and in a gigantic office, yet what we opened our shop for we do not do which is not right. Some companies that pay claims also don’t settle within weeks. How do you react to this? Each company tries to acclaim and exhibit their claims payment, which is good, but we are still not there. By now, we should be able to settle claims within three weeks, unless it is a stale paying claim that has not been adjusted. I would not put the whole blame on the insurance industry. For instance, in the group life, sometime it takes months before some clients report their claims. Aside that, after reporting, it still takes them months to substantiate. Some because of traditional and religious belief would not want to report. The industry is really trying in that area because no matter how long it takes, they still try to accommodate such claim. This is why I will not push the whole blame on the industry. What could have caused the delay? It is lack of education and awareness, which we also have to take care of. It is a gap for us to educate the public, institutions, private and public sector about insurance and let them know what to do in processing their claims and in instituting their policies. I keep saying it that people should go through registered insurance brokers.This is because when they do that, they would have people who would work for them to ensure they get their claims. What is your view on NAICOM’s Market Development agenda?   ‘Training, key to rebranding Odu’a Investments’     Dad inspired my business acumen- J&C boss     ‘Nigeria losing $450m to offshore data storage’   NAICOM’s Market Development agenda is all about pushing insurance to be accepted in all parts of the country. On our part as brokers, we are planning to create businesses in the northern part of Nigeria. We are looking at three or four broking firms coming together to open up an office there, take the businesses and share the commission. Same thing, the few underwriters there should lead the businesses. The problem we have is acceptance, which we must first address. I was invited for a road show in Abuja recently and we went to the major motor parks and other places to canvass insurance. I always tell my members that these things cost a lot of money, but if we do not invest, we cannot reap. In the past, I have spoken to some managing directors of insurance firms, that they should give to a broker that is doing well a car and attach a marketer to help them monitor businesses for them. We really have a problem and the only way out is to keep on engaging. How are operators deploying Information Technology to drive insurance business? We have 774 local governments and almost all underwriters and brokers are in Lagos. I think information technology would help us a lot. At the BIBA conference,  I  spoke with two companies to see if we could get an information technology platform that would work for us in rural areas, so that we can increase awareness and penetration and work is in progress on this. I hope the underwriters are doing same for, at the end of the day, if we are not careful with the sales of our products in these areas, we would be in serious trouble. My suggestion is that we should continue to engage. NAICOM is also trying to register some vendors, because they think we are not doing enough. They also feel it is their responsibility to ensure that insurance get to the nook and cranny. We are advocating that the vendors should be put under the brokers, because if they mis-sell, it would reverse the industry’s success. There are complaints of fake brokers. What are you doing about this? I have done something which is novel and would help the industry. For every broker, we have a seal. The vision I have for creating that seal, not everybody still can see it, until we start using it. We have the seal in the legal profession. As a lawyer, I have my seal which goes into every document I issue. We are at the state of writing to institutions about the seal and also getting the Ministry of Justice to accept it. Such that if you tender any document and that seal is not there, it would not be acceptable in the law court. It may be a long walk, but I’m trying to fast-track and shorten it. There have been some incidence of collapse building in Lagos State especially. How are you collaborating with the state on safety? The Nigeria Insurers Association (NIA) is working seriously with the Lagos State Government on safety issues as it relates to insurance. When the issue of collapsed building became rampant, I wrote to the Lagos State Government, not because I want to have the business, but to ensure insurance help in mitigating risks associated with the menace. Today, the NIA and the agencies of Lagos State have put a road block to ensure that you present insurance before commencing any construction. What about fake motor insurance menace? We have also engaged Lagos State Government to ensure that every citizen that goes into transport business has insurance. What is your take way from the just-concluded conference of African Insurance Organisation (AIO) in Kenya? The conference was very rich in substance and delivery. The entire ambience of the College of Insurance edifice, which was the venue of the conference was also great. In fact, when we got here, we were surprised to see such an edifice and we, operators, felt challenged considering what we have here as our college of insurance. But the truth remains that the progress made there is an industry thing. The entire insurance industry came out to support the edifice which we should all emulate in Nigeria. Sometimes, underwriters and brokers in Nigeria shy away from things like this unlike in Kenyan insurance industry where they have a lot of collaboration. We have learnt quite a lot of things that we have to emulate here.