The 2023 general election is about seven months away. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) by now must have received the names of the candidates of all the political parties for the election. Formal campaigns have not yet started but at least the people are aware of those who would be seeking their votes for the various positions in the executive and the legislative arms of government. Being a developing nation with a relatively young democracy  compared to other older democracies, the role of the media cannot be overemphasized. With such a huge population  the Nigeria media has a lot to do to make sure voters get all the information they will need to perform their civic duties during elections. Given that Nigerian democracy is still nascent, the job of the media in trying to shape it is a very critical one and this means that even though the media has been trying to do the best job in terms of reportage and editorial analysis of political and electoral processes, more still needs to be done. In a country that has a deep-seated inter-ethnic, inter-religious, inter-party and mistrust of governments, there has been a repeated display of voter apathy amongst the different voting demographics. The Nigerian democracy has had its mountains and valleys but sadly, Nigeria still has the global highest number of pre and post-election litigations. This has been a challenge to the Nigerian democracy. However, the 9th National Assembly would go down in history for passing the amended electoral bill which has now made it legal for election results to be transmitted electronically real time. The off cycle Ekiti and Osun states’ elections have shown that the use of technology is helping to improve the electoral processes.  Another subtle but profound message is that the people seem more eager to be part of the process. Clearly, the system is not yet perfect but progress is being made steadily. Both INEC and the security agencies seem to have improved. The Nigeria media must be willing to carry the people along. The apathy that had been displayed by the people in the past must be allayed with more information about the improvements that INEC and other government agencies have made to make elections more credible and transparent. The trust in the process must be transmitted by the media to the people in a bid to get them to actively follow the process and not assume that the flawed elections of the past would be repeated. However, the skewed emphasis by the media on a few presidential candidates and their political parties does not help the electorate. The elections in about thirty two states would include governors and their deputies and the members of state and federal legislature. The media must be ready to dig into the private and professional lives of those candidates  so that the people would make an informed choice. The bane of Nigerian democracy has been the fact that in the past, candidates emerged very close to the election period and had little or no time to campaign. A period of at least six months is an improvement to what has existed before. All candidates must be thoroughly reported in ways that the real choices by the people would be made with full knowledge of each candidate and their capacity. In developed democracies, standing for elections is almost like putting yourself on a media magnifying glass.  All and every information about a candidate must be put forward so that every voter would make a choice based on information about the candidates. This would to a very great extent return the power to the people. They would be better empowered to choose who to give their mandate. The flawed electoral processes of the past can be consigned to the bin of history with the media playing their roles better than ever before. The Roundtable Conversation spoke to Azu Ishiekwene, a veteran journalist who believes that journalists must realize that the trust level in the media in many parts of the world including Nigeria has been waning over the years whether in the larger social media space or in the main stream. Journalists of course realize that but they have an obligation in the profession that must be maintained especially at this time in the global political space. Section (22) of the Nigerian constitution he says clearly spells out the obligations of the media which is basically to hold governments to account on behalf of the people. Beyond the constitutional demands of the profession, there are basic tenets of the profession that the media must compulsorily uphold at all times. If journalists uphold the well thought out tenets of the profession, our democracy would gain and the country would continue to get progressively better.   Fresh trouble for Tambuwal, Bala, others as court axes Umahi     2023: Buhari hails APC leaders over choice of candidates     Abubakar Aliyu and the never-ending power grid collapse   Towards the 2023 general elections, Azu believes that the media must depart from the past in terms of focusing solely on the big players in politics, the media has the responsibility of shinning the light on all candidates and political parties. The media must seek to be fair to all concerned without biases. The stakes are high but the role of the media is clearly defined and adhering to the codes of conduct and the demands of section (22) of the constitution the media would be in a good stead to play its role in the country’s democracy. He equally believes that the media must be well enlightened to be in a position to enlighten the electorate to make informed choices. The stakes are quite high but the media must recognize that beyond the owners of the businesses or platforms, they represent and have an obligation to the public good. The regulators in the industry must always wield the big stick. There must be a deliberate attempt to earn public confidence and trust. Ishiekwene believes the Nigerian media has been very active but they must not drop the baton as the soul of democracy is a vibrant media. Mustapha Isah is the President of Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) and in a conversation with The Roundtable says he believes in the dictum that without the media, democracy cannot thrive in any environment.  Journalists to him must like Caesar’s wife be above reproach. The media must act as the true watchdogs of the society and that means that their job must be done properly. Objectivity in reporting or analysis must be the watchword. The media has a duty to hold politicians to focus on the issues that matter. The media must not be partisan neither should anyone be a religious or ethnic jingoist. The ethics of the profession does not permit leaning towards religious, ethnic or class interests, when a journalist chooses to lean towards any of those, he strips himself of the fundamental objectivity the job requires. When a journalist tilts towards any of the afore-mentioned issues, the person loses the journalistic credibility, the person then inadvertently becomes a spokesman of his ethnic origin, religion or class and loses his  essence as a journalist. The person loses the principles of objectivity, balance and fairness.  There must be due diligence. There must strict fact-checking. The media must be alert and hold the government and their agencies  and candidates to account. The media must go beyond focusing on issues like ethnicity and religion. The politicians often manipulate those two issues to distract the people. The media must redirect their attention to core issues of governance. Each candidate must be asked clear questions concerning what they intend to do if elected at any level so that the voters will be better informed. In Nigeria for instance, what is a Presidential candidate going to do about the national economy, insecurity, education, health, electricity supply and the debt burden that the nation is carrying? Mr Isah believes it is not enough to go with the cliché political rhetoric. Candidates must be willing to diligently tell the people his or her strategies in clear, unambiguous terms. The how’s must be addressed comprehensively. The media must be on the side of the people at all times. The media must not be sentimental in doing their duties. Even in school, we were told, ‘don’t put yourself in a story’ and that is a way of making journalists be factually objective. Be fair to all parties concerned and that is not just about the politicians or the voters. On the part of the Editors’ Guild, Isah informed the Roundtable that they have mounted series of training programmes across all geopolitical zones as part of the continuous media training and a reminder of the sacred roles the media plays in democracies. The 2023 elections he insisted is a serious and very remarkable one for the nation and the role of the media has never been more critical. He believes that Nigerians must be wary of the antics of politicians in weeping up sentiments because religion or ethnicity does not determine good governance given Nigeria’s political history. The people must be helped by the media to get the clarity they need to make informed choices and that must be done by the media interrogating the candidates across board for the real issues that matter which is how to get the economy back on the track. The Roundtable Conversation agrees totally with the two journalists that the media must help midwife Nigeria into a smooth transition of power at all levels in 2023. Democracy is not a hundred meters dash, slowly but steadily, the development the people seek can come but information is critical to that. All eyes are on the media. The watchdog must not sleep! The dialogue continues…