President Muhammadu Buhari has cautioned Nigerians in the Diaspora against using social media to incite political crisis in the country and to insult leaders. Buhari, who noted that social media had become a double-edged sword, said its negative application had made some countries adopt stringent measures against the users. He also spoke on the 2023 general elections and the  Nigeria-Portugal relations in Lisbon yesterday. A statement by the  Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Garba Shehu, said Buhari made the comments at a meeting with representatives of Nigerians.in Portugal and at a joint news conference with his Portuguese counterpart, Marcela Rebelo de Sousa. At the meeting with Nigerians, Buhari said they should at all times strive to promote the unity of Nigeria through social media. His words:‘‘The world is a global village and technology has shrunk the world even more. Although you reside beyond Nigeria’s boundaries, you can engage easily with the country. In fact, we see the impact of that engagement clearly on social media. “This platform has empowered Nigerians in the diaspora and given you great influence. As we have seen, however, social media can be a force for good as well as a force for evil. “Many countries, including our own have had to take strong measures against some social media platforms to curb their excesses and prevent them from destabilizing our societies. “I, therefore, call upon you to use social media responsibly. We all want the best for our country and people, so let us strive to build, unite and prosper our nation and people and not to insult and incite from a safe and anonymous distance.’’   Prioritising people     Was it a warning shot?     Dissociative identity disorder   The President expressed delight in the involvement of Nigerians in the  Diaspora in agriculture, health care, education and  ICT growth in Nigeria. He noted that many countries, including Nigeria, have shown that their people in the Diaspora can be a veritable engine for growth and development. Buhari assured that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) would deliver peaceful, transparent, free, fair and credible elections next year. “We look forward to a smooth transition to the next government. As I have said before, our Administration will not compromise on doing the right things and the welfare of Nigerians, home and abroad,’’ the President said. At the joint press conference, the President disclosed that Nigeria and Portugal would be extending their diplomatic relations by signing about 10 agreements and memoranda of understanding. According to the statement by Shehu, the new moves are to take relations between both countries to a whole new level, with concrete deliverables. The  pacts are on   ‘‘the Establishment of an Atlantic Research Centre; Air travel; Political Consultations; Diplomatic Training; Cultural Cooperation; Investment Promotion; Chambers of Commerce Cooperation; Women and Child Development; Youth and Sports Development and Digital Economy Cooperation” The statement added: ‘‘The world is at a crossroads. The decisions we take as leaders could make or break the world as we know it.” “We face existential challenges with climate change, food insecurity, conflict, health, and energy among others. “We look to Portugal as an influential country and partner to play an important role in helping to pull the world back from the brink.’’