If a man is diligent in his work, he will not only walk before kings and royalties, he will become a king and royalty in his own right. For the better part of this past week, the art and culture community in Nigeria, the grizzled purveyors of sacred tradition and the surviving illuminati of the Ori Olokun Theatre, have been celebrating one of their own who had just attained the historic age of eighty. That is a whole decade or ten clear years beyond the allotted benchmark of three scores and ten. It has been a moveable feast; a remarkable enactment of the Alarinjo Theatre but this time on the wheels. The long drawn fiesta exploded into life last Monday at the bucolic and serene Ipara homestead of the master crooner. All the great and good people of the culture industry were there to honour one of their own; an authentic original. The ceremony was billed to culminate in a sensational show stopper at the Freedom Square, Ikoyi last night. In the early hours of last Monday, this columnist placed a call to Tunde Fagbenle, the hell-raising aficionado of culture and longstanding friend and associate of Jimi Solanke. After the customary exchange of satanic banter and broadside, yours sincerely, bleary-eyed and sleep-starved after a twelve hour transatlantic shuttle, asked the former Punch columnist where he was going to be for the day. “ Where else can one be except at Ipara with Jimi Show, or are you a mad man?” the choleric Igbajo nobleman of Ijesha extraction bawled over the phone sending jitters to the spine. “Haba, Baba kilagbe, kileju?” one responded in mock reverence. You can trust Fagbenle to pick the tone of false respect and the sneering inflection. “Tani baba e? O to golotogoloto bayi o ni baba?” (Who is your father as big and bulky as you are you have no father?) came the blistering response. When one cited the raging inferno around Ogere of the previous night as an excuse, it invited a more damning expletive from the old contrarian. One quickly dived for cover. It all seemed like yesterday. But it was exactly twenty years earlier in 1992 when Papa Jimi celebrated his sixtieth birthday at the veranda of his modest flat at the Road Seven Extension of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife with the selfsame Tunde Fagbenle as the chairman of the occasion and yours sincerely in attendance. With a gifted local band in attendance, it was a great night of singing, dancing and bawdy merrymaking. After the party, yours sincerely played host to Fagbenle who spent the rest of the night cursing and bemoaning the loss of his money to local bounty hunters who besieged him on the dance floor while he was busy gambolling and frolicking. All entreaties from his wife came to naught. At that point in time, Baba Agba was already a household name in Nigeria. He had made his mark with sterling contribution to the industry. But fame had not been accompanied by much prosperity. A measure of that was to come tumbling his way later.  In those days, you looked into his faraway and occasionally quizzical frown and you guessed that the great man was far from finished. A restless soul, sticker for excellence and perfectionist to the core, he was to spend the next twenty years consolidating his rich oeuvre. He had become a master story teller and raconteur of exceptional fecundity. Given all the plaudits and accolades that have come his way this past week, it can be said that the young man from Ipara has transformed into the grand old man of the Nigerian culture industry. Talented lyricist, gifted musician, a raconteur of genius, master story teller and dramatist extraordinaire, Jimi Solanke is unarguably one of the greatest cross-over artists ever produced by this country. As a teenager barely out of secondary school, the tall lithe chap from Ipara in Ijebu-Remo plunged himself into the industry with the vigour and enthusiasm of youth. He was a cultural missionary who discovered his mission early in life. His unbridled enthusiasm for the arts and music, and the nocturnal forays that must accompany this earned him a summary expulsion from the household of his guardian in Ibadan who could not understand how and why a young man from a well-connected and notable background, with a lineage that stretches back to the ages, will choose a life of music and revelry over more decent and prestigious careers such as Law, Medicine and Education.‘ But the young man was not going to be detained by temporary setbacks or deterred by transient censures. Nothing was going to prevent him from the pursuit of excellence in his chosen field. He had been guided to his calling by some inner voice of certitude. No amount of early humiliation or earthly excommunication was going to stop him. The combination of singing, dancing and acting was a jealous mistress which does not brook faithlessness or lack of higher seriousness. Despite the fact that his name and reputation preceded him, our first encounter with Jimi Solanke was full of drama and surprises. As a fresh star-struck undergraduate at the then University of Ife in late 1971, one had gone to watch a “Command performance” of Ola Rotimi’s memorable rendition of the tragedy that struck the Benin people in 1897 and the last moments in office of their heroic and exemplary monarch, Ovonramwen Nogbaisi. It was, to say the least, a commanding performance. Jimi Solanke electrified the stage with his mesmerizing royal gait, his magnificent oratory and sheer bravura. There was something manic and possessed about it all. It was as if the great thespian exhumed Nogbaisi’s royal cadaver and breathed life into it. The sonorous wailing of women in the background; the terminal gongs of terminated empire added to the eerily unreal atmosphere as one was transported back to the ancient palace. In all the life of this columnist, this was the first time one was seeing the actor outclass the acted, or the copied surpassing the original copy. The only other occasion one can recall was George. C Scott, the great American actor, playing General George Patton, the great American Second World War Tank commander. It was a performance destined for the history books. Such was the brilliance of Scott’s performance in this film, the shaman-like self-assurance and the dare devil swagger, that when the real General Patton appeared in a cameo, one felt very sorry for him indeed. Till date one cannot recall the memory of the great American military genius without the image of George Scott interspersing. Neither can one think of the great Benin ruler without a recall of the man from Ipara.   A very British political assassination     Pawns and powerbrokers     Baba Lekki sings ARIWO lenu Vendor   After that scintillating performance, Jimi Solanke could do no wrong in the eye of his youthful admirer. He was like a secular deity. Reports began to filter in of his heroic derring-do in the political department during the infamous wetie insurrection in the old West. Imagine the playful and apolitical actor-musician as the mythical driver of the mythical vehicle from which an equally mythical personage launched his famous assault on a radio station which briefly interrupted the broadcast with a fiery denunciation. Yet to the best of our knowledge, our man never boasted or bragged about his exploits. There were also reports of youthful romantic escapades which merely deepened one’s fascination. A former classmate at Ife later told the columnist that after she parted ways with Papa Jimi to hook up with a newly arrived officer at the Federal Cabinet Office, Jimi would change the beat once the new couple arrived at any gig in which he was playing and launch into an old Julius Araba classic. O gba’ya Oya, o gba’ya Esu O gba’ya Sango meta, meta meta   Oya a ya’le e, esu a ya’le   Sango a fi e sofo…….. Such are the ways of musicians and dramatists of genius. Another lady friend of the columnist told him that when her husband, a great socialite of the closing decade of the last century, had a child out of wedlock he had approached the great commander himself to play at the naming ceremony, the evangelist declined citing reasons of religion and Christianly charity. But the great Egin crooner would have none of that nonsense. He not only agreed, he went ahead to perform. But on subsequent encounters at parties whenever the lady tried to give him a whipping look of disapproval and disappointment, the master musician would suddenly change the beat, cantering and capering to great self-delight as he crooned: Ototo larin wa, ototo larin wa    Mo sebi ile aiye lapade ara wa To return to base, it was not long afterwards that Papa Jimi left the shores of Nigeria for a sojourn in America to try his luck and fortune. It was neither a fulfilling nor an entirely happy interlude. The west, and America in particular, is always too constricted and restricted to contain authentic African talents without deodorising and sanitizing the potency of their gifts to conform with the demands of a cultural particularism cleverly disguised as universalism or globalism. In the case of an African original like Jimi and perhaps several native African artists before and after him, it was like trying to re-engineer and reconfigure a fully formed embryo. It was going to be a bridge too far. It did not take too long for the singing birds and dancing simians of Ipara to recall and reclaim their own. Jimi decided to cut to the chase. It was a fortuitous decision. In the event, America’s loss was Nigeria and Africa’s cultural gain. Yours sincerely was divinely positioned to witness the return of the native. In 1979, one was privileged to give a ride to the returning thespian from Agodi Gate to the then University of Ife in a refurbished and reconditioned Passat LS car. Not being well-known or familiar with him at that point in time, this is not an event Papa Jimi would probably recall. But it is true, very true. It was morning yet on creativity’s day. Jimi’s greatest artistic and musical exploits lay ahead of him. As he packed his formidable frame into the passenger seat of the car, Baba Agba remained quietly defiant and with his imperious visage unbowed and unfazed by temporary adversity. Recalling the dramatic extravaganza of Ovonramwen eight years earlier, one was still too star struck to conduct any meaningful conversation with the august personage in the car. What remains to be said is that in all this, an authoritarian father-figure looms in the background constantly whipping a recalcitrant prodigy into line. It is a source of tension and constant psychological unease, but it is also the lynchpin of great imaginative fecundity. As in the Yoruba art of facial branding, the beauty comes after the brutalization. This remote and unsparing patriarch figure is the source and inspiration of arguably Jimi’s greatest songs: Baba Agba and Bara eni joye. In ending, if one were to compare Jimi Solanke and Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, two of the greatest Yoruba artistic geniuses ever, one can say that while Fela committed straightforward class suicide without caring a hoot about either the Yoruba traditional aristocracy or its contemporary political elite, Solanke remains a rebel traditional aristocrat very much rooted in the culture and tradition of his people. Having reached the pinnacle of human existence, here is wishing Baba Agba many happy returns of the 4th of July.