THE internal crisis rocking the Ekiti State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) became uncontrollable following the loss of the party at the governorship election last Saturday. The Nation gathered that chieftains of the opposition party, which came third behind the winner, All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Social Democratic Party (SDP), have been trading blames over the defeat of the PDP candidate, Otunba Olabisi Kolawole at the polls. The Vice Chancellor of the University of Ibadan and INEC Returning Officer, Prof. Oyebode Adebowale, declared the All Progressives Congress candidate, Biodun Oyebanji, the winner of the election having polled the highest number of votes, 187,057. A former governor of the state and the Social Democratic Party (SDP) candidate, Segun Oni secured 82,211 votes to come second while Olabisi Kolawole of the PDP, came a distant third, polling 67,457 votes. Before the election, pundits have described the contest as a test of political strength and relevance for the four politicians who have governed the state since 1999. These four, former governors, Adeniyi Adebayo, Ayodele Fayose, Segun Oni and the incumbent Fayemi, have remained relevant and influential in the politics of the state. All four of them staked their pride and names in the last gubernatorial contest decided last Sunday. While both Fayemi and Adebayo who are chieftains of the ruling APC, threw their weight behind the party’s candidate, Biodun Oyebanji and openly supported his aspiration, Oni was the candidate of the SDP, a party he joined after failing to clinch the gubernatorial ticket of the PDP. For Fayose, he was the main strength behind Olabisi Kolawole, the candidate he allegedly imposed on the PDP ahead of better known chieftains like Oni and Senator Biodun Olujimi, among others. Expectedly, following the woeful performance of Kolawole in the race, not a few leaders and members of the PDP in Ekiti state have been blaming Fayose and his camp for the party’s loss. According to reliable party sources, some associates and allies of the former governor are also now complaining and revolting against his leadership of the party while his known critics like Senator Olujimi and her group are said to be gearing up to challenge Fayose’ continued hold on the party. The crisis rocking the Ekiti state chapter of the PDP had taken another twist last January when five governorship aspirants of the party rejected the process of the ad-hoc ward congress that elected three delegates in each of the 177 wards for the governorship primary election of the party ahead of last Saturday’s governorship poll. The aspirants, former governor Oni; Senator Olujimi; former deputy governor, Professor Kolapo Olusola; former national treasurer of the party, Wale Aribisala and Lateef Ajilola described the congress as a charade and unacceptable. The aspirants who jointly addressed journalists in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital complained that the congress aimed at producing delegates for the January 26 primaries was compromised in favour of the group loyal to Fayose. “Before today, we were getting it right. We were talking across all divides and we believe we would end up together but what has happened today has shown that there is a big problem. Let me sound it that we politicians are testing the will of the people too much. If anybody thinks he is a muscle man who can wrestle the process out of the grip of the people, let him wait for them. And I believe they will wait for him at an appropriate corner,” they said. However, the secretary of the congress committee, Kola Ologbondiyan, insisted the committee didn’t bend the rules to favour any of the factions, saying the accreditation and distribution of materials were done in the presence of all the aspirants. “What we have done is in line with the directives we have been given from Abuja. The aspirants would have to wait for the appeal committee if they have issues with the conduct of the congress.   Osun Decides: 18 suspected political thugs held     We are with you wherever you go, Igboho group assures Rauf…     Chieftain urges APC to ensure genuine reconciliation for…   “We have internal mechanism to settle all our differences,” he said back then. Olujimi eventually opted out of the PDP primary election claiming she was disenfranchised by the party. “I came to drop my letter that I was pulling out of the process. What happened was that 14 local governments, four of them from my senatorial district, were given to a group of the party and the remaining two, where congresses should have held, nothing held. So today, the party asked me to use automatic delegates; 12 from my local government and 10 from Gbonyin local government, making 22 out of the 156 that I should have, and I feel disenfranchised. I feel like the party does not believe in my presence there. I believe the party does not believe in whatever I have done, so I have pulled out, she said.” Oni and other went ahead to contest the election and they lost to Fayose’s anointed candidate, Kolawole. While Oni defected to the SDP to pursue his governorship aspiration, the others grudgingly stayed back in the PDP but were alleged to have displayed indifference to the campaign of the party before the election. “Even on Election Day, these aggrieved guber aspirants and other leaders of the party across the state were non-committal to the party,” a source alleged. Allegations and counter-allegations To press home their demand for the national leadership of the PDP to look into the issues surrounding the party’s failure at the polls, some PDP chieftains in the state have been calling out Fayose, blaming him for destroying the party in Ekiti state allegedly for selfish reasons. A former member of the House of Representatives, Yemi Arokodare, accused the former governor of working against PDP in the governorship election. The former federal legislator, in a statement released in Abuja, claimed Fayose “deliberately worked against the collective interest of the majority of party members for personal gains.” He urged the national leadership of the party to immediate re-organise the PDP in the state.  Arokodare recalled how he had warned his party, the PDP, to expect a major setback in Ekiti over what he described as “our failure to field a popular candidate.” “It was obvious to the blind and known to the deaf that Chief Segun Oni was the popular choice of the majority in the party and beyond, but the prospect of the party was sacrificed for self-aggrandisement and delegates hunting by Fayose and his accomplices. I also hope that Governor Nyesom Wike has now realised that he was wrong in supporting Fayose to work against Segun Oni because of delegates number, despite all the entreaties. “Also, Governor Seyi Makinde was in a good position to help the PDP to see through the chicanery of Fayose and guide the party to make an informed choice in Ekiti, but he failed to realise that a loss for the PDP in the presidential election could cause his own defeat. It is quite painful that our party ignored my warning and is now off to a difficult start ahead of the general elections, but all hope is not lost because a reorganised and formidable PDP can still win the remaining elections,” the lawmaker added. But another chieftain of the party in the state, Lere Olayinka faulted Fayose’s accusers and suggested that conspirators worked against the party and its flag-bearer, Bisi Kolawole. Olayinka, who is the spokesman of ex-Governor Fayose, noted that it was time to move on. The PDP chieftain said he would not go about ruing on what happened and what shouldn’t have happened. “To the conspirators in Abuja, Southwest Nigeria and Ekiti, we are now on the ground together and it is only God that knows who will rise first.”