Civil Society Groups for Good Governance (CSGGG) yesterday called on President Muhammadu Buhari to follow the public service rule in filling the vacant position of the Accountant – General of the Federation. The  group explained that the most senior director in the office should be elevated to fill the vacant post. President of the CSGGG, Comrade Dominic Ogakwu stated this  at a news conference in Abuja . The Office of the Accountant – General of the Federation became vacant following the arrest of the former occupant, Ahmed Idris, who was allegedly accused of embezzlement. Idris was replaced by Chukwuyere Anamekwe in acting capacity.   We’re not aware of such plans, says Education Ministry’s…     Four injured as NURTW, NDLEA operatives clash in Osogbo park     Buhari pledges to increase judicial welfare, working…   In a twist, the Federal Government again replaced Anamekwe with a former Director of the Treasury Single Account, Okolieaboh Sylva to oversee the office of the OAGF. Ogakwu at the news conference argued that the most senior director in the Federal Ministry of Finance ought to be redeployed to the Office of the Accountant-General as the acting accountant general of the federation, pending when a substantive AGF would be appointed. He said: “Therefore, to arrest this untoward development and set the  public service back on the right trajectory, CSGGG hereby calls on President Muhammadu Buhari, the Head of Service of the federation, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation and all those who are entrusted with the sanctity of our public service system, to immediately do the needful and put an end to this unholy trend of making a mockery of our public service and turning Nigeria into a laughing stock in the league of nations. “Cutting to the chase, the right thing to do in this case, is for the most senior director in the Federal Ministry of Finance, to be redeployed to the Office of the Accountant-General as the acting accountant general of the federation, pending when a substantive Accountant-General of the Federation would be appointed. “In all candor, we believe that this will restore confidence in the  public service and boost the morale of our public stewards down the line, as they will be motivated by the transparency in the appointment process and be encouraged to aspire to the top echelon in their careers and by so doing, benefit Nigeria immensely.”