Ons Jabeur’s steady progress from year to year — up the tennis rankings, through the draws of various tournaments, and, now, at Wimbledon — has carried her to a Grand Slam singles final, the first woman from Africa to make it that far in the professional era. The No. 3-seeded Jabeur, a 27-year-old from Tunisia, got past her good friend Tatjana Maria 6-2, 3-6, 6-1 in an up-and-down semifinal at a sun-splashed Centre Court yesterday. Jabeur is on quite a run right now: She has won 11 consecutive matches and 22 of her past 24. Since pro players were first admitted to major tennis tournaments in 1968, never had an African been to a final. She also is the first Arab woman to get that far. “I’m a proud Tunisian woman standing here today (Thursday). I know in Tunisia, they’re going crazy right now. I just try to inspire, really, as much as I can,” she said. “I want to see more and more — not just Tunisian — Arab, African players on tour. I just love the game and I want to share this experience with them.” Jabeur will face 2019 champion Simona Halep or No. 17 seed Elena Rybakina for the championship tomorrow. Jabeur has been rising in the tennis world in recent seasons. In 2020, at the Australian Open, she became the first Arab woman to reach the quarterfinals at a major. Last year produced all sorts of milestones: the first Arab player to break into the top 10 of the men’s or women’s rankings, the first Arab to win a WTA title, and a quarterfinal appearance at Wimbledon. Now she’s done that two steps better.   Sports Festival to be expanded soon, says Dare     NPFL: Fierce battle against relegation     World Cup stadiums to be alcohol-free   “I really don’t know what to say. It’s a dream coming true from years and years of work and sacrifice. I’m really happy it’s paying off,” Jabeur said through a wide smile. “One more match now.” When she closed out the biggest victory of her career, she and Maria — a 34-year-old mother of two from Germany who is ranked 103rd — met at the net for an extended hug. Jabeur whispered something in her pal’s ear. Then, after depositing her racket on the sideline, Jabeur returned to the middle of the court for the usual victor’s wave to the crowd — except, instead of going alone, she playfully tugged Maria along with her, an uncommon gesture. “I definitely wanted to share the moment with her at the end, because she’s such an inspiration for so many players, including me,” Jabeur said. “Coming back after having two babies — I still can’t believe how she did it.” Before their semifinal, Jabeur and Maria stood beside each other, waiting to take the walk through the halls of the stadium that lead to the court. Close as they are, the pair avoided exchanging any glances or chatter. Close friends, yes. On this day, opponents, too, with quite the setting, stage, and stakes. Neither had been to a Grand Slam semifinal previously. Maria never had been past the third round in any of her 34 prior appearances at major tournaments — and she only got that far once, at Wimbledon in 2015. The two hang out together frequently. They are, to use Jabeur’s term, “barbecue buddies.” Jabeur knows Maria’s two daughters so well that the German referred to her as “Aunt Ons.”