For many Nigerians, the introduction of the 5G technology into the nation’s telecoms landscape has been greeted with mixed feelings as some school of thought hold the view and very strongly too that the country may not be adequately ready for the newest addition of the technology while other stakeholders and expert opinions differ. Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf examines the issues  Barring any last minute hitches, the 5G technology network will become effective by next month if the timeline given by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) is anything to go by. 5G technology in Nigeria From available information, in December, 2021, MTN Nigeria and Mafab Nigeria Communications Limited made full payment of $273.6 million each for the 5G Spectrum license to the Nigerian Communications Commission for available lots of 100 MHz TDD slots of 3.5 GHz band for the deployment of 5G in the country. The NCC had announced that telecommunication operators are expected to begin the roll out of fifth generation technology services in August 2022, after it handed over the final letters of award of 5G spectrum licences to winners of the December 3.5GHz spectrum auctions. According to the NCC, every state in Nigeria will start enjoying 5G services from 2028 – 2032. Concerns over 5G network However, there have been concerned over the planned introduction of the 5G technology in some quarters. Specifically, the International Air Transport Association had recently urged the Federal Government of Nigeria and the governments of other countries to work closely with the aviation industry to ensure that aviation and incumbent aviation safety systems can safely co-exist with new 5G services. The organisation spoke against the backdrop of flight disruptions caused by the recent deployment of 5G services by telecommunication companies in the United States and plans by Nigeria and other countries to deploy 5G services in the coming months. While IATA recognises the economic importance of making spectrum available to support next generation commercial wireless telecommunications, it posited that maintaining current levels of safety of passengers, flight crews, and aircraft must continue to be one of governments’ highest priorities. The call came as the global airline industry met in Doha, Qatar for its 78th IATA Annual General Meeting recently. A statement by IATA, the Geneva-based body representing over 290 international airlines in over 120 countries, quoted its Director-General, Willie Walsh, as saying, “We must not repeat the recent experience in the United States, where the rollout of C-band spectrum 5G services created enormous disruption to aviation, owing to the potential risk of interference with radio altimeters that are critical to aircraft landing and safety systems. In fact, many countries have successfully managed to facilitate the requirements of 5G service providers, while including necessary mitigations to preserve aviation safety and uninterrupted services. These include, for example, Brazil, Canada, France and Thailand.” He added, “Before deciding on any spectrum allocations or conducting spectrum auctions, IATA called for governments to ensure close coordination and mutual understandings between national spectrum and aviation safety regulators so that each frequency allocation/assignment is comprehensively studied and is proven not to adversely impact aviation safety and efficiency.” According to IATA, robust testing in coordination with aviation subject matter experts is critically important in providing necessary information. It listed others as clearly codifying and enforcing the maximum power limit for 5G C-band transmission and downward tilting of 5G antennae particularly in the vicinity of flightpaths; and establishment of sufficient 5G C-band prohibition and precautionary zones around airports. The statement added, “IATA noted that airlines operating to/from and within the US continue to contend with the effects of the rollout of 5G, including a pending airworthiness directive from the Federal Aviation Administration requiring them to retrofit/upgrade radio altimeters at their own expense to enable the respective aircraft to continue to utilise CAT II and CAT III low-visibility approaches at many US airports where 5G C-Band service is currently or will be deployed in future. “The timely availability of upgraded altimeters is a concern, as are the cost of these investments and the lack of certainty regarding the future spectrum environment. Furthermore, 19 additional telecommunications companies are scheduled to deploy 5G networks by December 2023.” Incidentally, a former Managing Director, Aero Contractors, Captain Ado Sanusi, advised telcos in Nigeria must work with the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority to ensure safe rollout of 5G services. He spoke against the backdrop of the plan by MTN and Mafab to deploy 5G services in Nigeria, following their purchase of 5G spectrum for $547m from the Nigerian Communications Commission. However, Sanusi said 5G services could pose risks to aircraft landing if its frequency is located close to onboard aviation safety equipment. Africa countries where 5G technology exist Some of the following African countries have since pioneered 5G technology including: Ethiopia, Botswana, Egypt, Gabon, Kenya, Lesotho, Madagascar, Mauritius, Senegal, Seychelles, South Africa, Uganda, and Zimbabwe, when it comes to testing or deploying 5G. According to reports, Nigeria is among the 7 African countries that will have 5G by 2025. In addition, GSM operators in Nigeria are set to commence testing 5G network across major states in the country. Pros and cons of 5G technology In his treatise on the pros and cons of 5G technology, Rohit Mehta, an Indian blogger, entrepreneur and founding CEO of Digital Gabbar, he said the 5G is the fifth-generation cellular network technology that allows users to gain more advantages.   Osun guber and Oyetola’s fulfilled mandate     Nexus between ethnic, religious bigotry, and…     The end of the rules-based international order?   According to him, “It is replacing 4G networks slowly in different parts of the world that caters to the needs of smartphone users when they want to access the data. The network not only benefits individuals but also developers to deploy applications faster. On the other hand, it is important to know the pros and cons of 5G technology in detail that will help make the right decision.” Some of the benefits inherent in 5G network is that it has high speeds and works faster on mobile phones and other devices when compared to 4G and 4G LTE. It allows users to download movies, videos, and music in seconds as opposed to minutes. The network has 20 Gbps speed enabling organisations to use the same for services such as automation, advanced web conferencing, etc. A recent survey says that consumers who used 5G saved nearly 23 hours per day in the downloading process. Besides, he said, “5G has low latency when compared to 4G that will support new applications such as AI, IoT, and virtual reality efficiently. Not only that, it enables mobile phone users to open a webpage and browse things without any hassles. Another thing is that it gives ways to access the internet anytime when looking for some important information.” In terms of increased capacity, he said 5G has the capacity to deliver up to 100 times more capacity than 4G. It allows companies to switch between cellular and Wi-Fi wireless strategies that will help a lot to experience better performance. Apart from that, it provides methods to access the internet with high efficiency. Lamentably, the 5G technology has some downsides such as it results in a huge battery drain that reduces the lifespan to a large extent. Hence, manufacturers need to invest in new battery technologies to protect the battery from damages and other problems. Cybersecurity is one of the drawbacks of 5G because it will result in hacking. The expansion in the bandwidth enables criminals to steal the database with ease. Moreover, it uses software that leads to vulnerable attacks. As 5G connects with more devices, the chances of attacks are very high. Hence, companies and businesses should protect their infrastructure with a security operations center that will result in additional expenses. 5G lacks encryption and hackers can plan their attacks with more precision that will affect the companies to a large extent. More bandwidth will strain current security monitoring and the network requires security measures to prevent cyber threats. Consumer education is necessary for enhancing security efficiently. On the other hand, efforts are being taken to improve the security along with the initial rollout of 5G. Keeping all IoT devices updated with security patches will help overcome the problems with optimal results. Not only that, 5G users should follow some other measures to minimize unwanted problems. In the view of Timothy Badmus, an ICT expert, one of the main disadvantages of 5G is that it has limited global coverage and is available only in specific locations. “Only cities can benefit a lot from 5G network and remote areas may not get the coverage it for some years. Moreover, the expenses for setting tower stations are high when compared to other networks.” A case for 5G network Prof. Isa Ali Pantami, Federal Minister of Communications and Digital Economy of Nigeria had in a keynote address delivered at a public forum two months ago spoke on Nigeria’s readiness to deploy the 5G technology. While making a case for the technology, he said 5G is much more than an evolution from 4G as it translates to a significant growth in number and size of physical infrastructure. “The ultra-high speed of 5G will be made possible by huge data centres and complex software at the network core and smaller data centres and antennas near the network end points and subscribers.  In terms of density, 4G allows connection to about 1 million devices in 500 square kilometers, while 5G will allow the same number of devices in just 1 square kilometer.” Going down memory lane, Pantami recalled that the National 5G Policy was approved by the Federal Executive Council on the 8th of September, 2021 and it contains all the necessary information guiding the processes and procedures for the deployment of 5G technology in Nigeria. The process for the development of the Policy was initiated in November 2019, when the 5G trials commenced and subsequently took place in a number of cities in the country. According to him, “The report of the 5G trials was critically reviewed with a view to studying the health and security implications of deploying 5G in Nigeria. We found it safe and secure to deploy in Nigeria.  Leading international organisations such as the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), an organ of the United Nations, have also confirmed that the deployment of 5G network has no adverse health effect and is safe. After the trials we embarked on an extensive stakeholder engagement that included adequate public awareness and sensitisation.” Citing a report by the GSMA, he said, “As at the end of December 2021, 200 mobile operators in 78 countries/territories have announced 3GPP-compatible 5G service launches (either mobile or fixed wireless access), including about 9 countries in Africa. With our population and market size, we are on course to become the country with the largest 5G deployment in Africa.” Following the successful auctioning of the 3.5GHz in December 2021, Nigeria is set to start enjoying the economic benefits of deploying 5G Networks. With near real time downloads and uploads, 5G will revolutionise every sector of the economy and accelerate digitisation, enhance connectivity and ensure reliability.  The different sectors of our economy can experience the positive effects of accelerated digitisation that 5G networks can provide. Expectedly, the Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) has dismissed concerns that the 5G telecom network could interfere with aviation signal. ALTON chairman, Gbenga Adebayo, had in a statement recently dismissed claims that 5G could interfere with aviation signal. “There is no greater risk of interference with 5G networks than there is with any of the existing transmissions taking place in the frequencies adjacent to those used by radio altimeters,” Adebayo said. He therefore impressed on Nigeria GSM users to be enthusiastic about the usage of the 5G approved by the Federal Government, saying that unlike the current experience it would ease doing of businesses much faster, and make life more comfortable without any side effect. Speaking on the advantages of 5G, he said, “In comparison to 4G, 5G is expected to be up to 10 times faster and provide near 100% availability, coverage, and reduction in energy usage. “In Q3 2020, the worldwide median download speed over 5G was 954% faster than over 4G while the median upload speed over 5G was 311% faster than 4G. “5G is also expected to provide efficient support for larger numbers of connections, enabling the Internet of Things (IoT). According to OfCom, 5G offers greater capacity, allowing thousands of devices in a small area to be connected at the same time. “5G delivers improved data rates (up to 100 times faster than current mobile networks), supporting virtually instant access to services and applications, with network latency significantly reduced. “In addition, it offers network slicing technology making it possible to dedicate a unique part of a 5G network for a particular service. “5G is expected to see a greater number of small cells (low powered base stations that can be mounted on buildings and street furniture) and will require wider deployment of full-fibre broadband infrastructure.”