SINCE Treasure Scientia School (TSS) has distinguished itself in the combination of education with vocational skills acquisition, its Principal, Prince Hope Nwagboso, told The Nation during the week. The school based in Naze, Owerri North Local Government Area of Imo State believes in the philosophy that while acquiring basic education, their students also need to develop their skills to enable them. In a chat, Nwagboso said: “The initiative was born out of the need to help our students excel in practical-oriented subjects introduced by the Ministry of Education, and to offer them important skills that will boost their chances of survival in contemporary society,” Nwagboso said. He added that hundreds of pupils of the school over the past few years had acquired skills in Cosmetology, Computer Engineering, Shoe Making, Fashion and Design, Hair Dressing and, among others. “This is one of the feats, which TSS prides itself for,” he added. On the challenges which students could face by combining academics with skills acquisition, Nwagboso responded: “The issue of combining academics with skills poses no worry”, Nwagboso insisted. “This is because the duo of academics and skills acquisition complements each other.   Statisticians decry poor data usage by govts     Bankers, academics to assess governance at book launch     ‘We should refocus education system towards STEM’   “Take, for example, the theoretical framework for Cosmetology, Fashion/ Design and Hair Styling are in Home Economics, Computer Engineering is in ICT, while Shoe making is in Creative Art and so on. This is why we can confidently blend the two together so as to ensure we give our students the best. “This is not obtainable in other schools because they stop at classwork. For us at TSS, it is a perfect arrangement, which we adopt to ensure that we do not stop at class work, but introduce the practical aspect of it to enable the students  put into practice what they have learnt. “This practice has not only gained TSS accolades from notable individuals and organisations, but has also created a niche for the school. This is what we are known for and it’s our brand,” he said. According to him, in most schools in Nigeria where skills acquisition programmes are obtainable, they are mostly sanctioned by the State Ministry of Education for them to be effective. “However, TSS has not waited to get such a mandate before acting and this