The National Population Commission, NPC, has announced plans to recruit one million staff for the 2023 National Population Census and Housing exercise. The Federal Commissioner, National Population Commission, Alhaji Almu Banye, who made the above declaration in Daura, Katsina State, also announced that applicants who must be 18 years and above, must possess their National Identity Numbers, NIN, and are expected to apply online. He further denied social media reports that the recruitment exercise had  already commenced, saying the commencement date would be announced to members of the public. He said: ”Applicants are expected to apply from where they are residing and are ready to work in if employed. ”Nigerians should ignore misleading online reports that we are already recruiting and that we are asking questions on religion and ethnicity, they are not needed for developmental basis.” The Federal Commissioner who was in Daura for the ongoing enumeration exercise for the planned trial census in Daura Local Government Area, said the exercise had recorded huge successes since its commencement on Tuesday night.   Economy quakes under biting inflation     Business, consumers groan as inflation wreaks havoc     How CBN is fighting inflation   Alhaji Almu-Banye said he was in Daura to monitor the ongoing five-day exercise to see the success and challenges so that it can be resolved immediately. The Nation recalled that out of the 6 Enumeration Areas (EAs) visited by the Federal Commissioner, only one was having a challenge. The commissioner further assured staff with complaints that he would pass them to the NPC headquarters for further action, expressing satisfaction with the conduct of the exercise so far. He further said ” the commencement of the exercise with the enumeration of the homeless persons was successful beyond expectations”. A supervisor in one of the EAs, Great Achievers area, Mrs Tani Abdul Salam complained that she had been overloaded with about 500 buildings. According to her, due to the large number of people in some of the residential houses, she may not be able to cover everything within the five days. She appealed to the commissioner to look into the possible deployment of additional officials so that they could cover the area within the stipulated five days.