The Honourable Minister of Youth and Sports Sunday Dare has appealed to the Confederation of African Cycling (CAC) and the Union of International Cycling (UCI) to help develop the sport and partner with Nigeria by providing training programs and cycling equipment. The Minister made this appeal while welcoming Africa at the opening ceremony of the fourth edition of the African Track Cycling Championship inside the Velodrome of the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja yesterday. He also commended the President of the Cycling Federation of Nigeria(CFN) Engineer Giandomenico Massari and his board for the tremendous investments they are making to develop the sport in Nigeria. Nigeria and 14 other countries, including Ghana, Benin Republic, Morocco, Egypt, Tunisia, and Algeria, are expected to participate in the Championship which will end on Sunday July 17.   Wilder wants to fight winner of Joshua –Usyk rematch     Ejuke: why I joined Hertha Berlin     NPFL: Remo Stars, Kwara United in titanic race for third…   In attendance for the opening ceremony was a delegation from the Confederation of African Cycling(CAC) led by its president Dr Mohamed Waguih Azzam. “We will use this opportunity to appeal to the Confederation of African Cycling (CAC) and the Union of International Cycling (UCI) to always look in the direction of Nigeria for their developmental and training programmes as well as the provision of facilities, equipment and other materials that will make Nigeria, the Cycling hub of Africa. “As a Government, we will continue to do our best to create an enabling environment for cycling to grow and give support to the Nigerian, African and international cycling bodies in their efforts to develop the sport.” The minister later urged Team Nigeria to be hospitable and good ambassadors of the country even as he encouraged them to win the championships as they did in 2019 when Nigeria hosted the 2nd edition of the event. He said: “To Team Nigeria, let me ask you to be good and hospitable hosts, but also remind you of 2019 when we last hosted this competition and won it. Try to do it again.”