Crisis of choice has hit the two major parties and two other struggling platforms. It may be temporary or a passing phase. But, it may also permeate the campaigns and the most critical stage of the electioneering, if utmost care is not taken. The crisis is not strange. It is typical of political parties and the political class. Remarkably, it may also be peculiar to Nigeria, a divided heterogeneous polity trying frantically to forge ahead in an atmosphere of debasing unitary tremor. But the dimension and gravity are beyond what were anticipated. The way and manner the challenge is finally tackled by the parties would enrich the experience of future contenders and students of political history. The first preliminary lesson is that it is now old fashioned to think that a flag bearer has the prerogative over the choice of his running mate. An exclusive right in that regard is clearly outdated. The choice can either become an asset or a liability, depending on how he was selected. The reason is not far-fetched. The candidate is projected as a candidate of a zone, a bloc, or a tendency. The person who is to pair with him is also perceived as a representative of a region or zone. The input of top stakeholders from the regions becomes crucial in making a concrete and acceptable decision on filling the slot. The second lesson is that the process that throws up the running mate should be inclusive, mutually agreed upon and accepted by majority party stakeholders, or put succinctly, the aggregate interest groups within the party. The implication is that if the standard bearer decides to choose without extensive consultation, team work and collective approval, those who may be sidelined, ignored or not adequately consulted may feel neglected and raise an objection. This implies that in a party, the choice of a running mate cannot be the personal affair of the standard bearer. The third is that the choice should also appeal to stakeholders outside the parties and regional interests, including, sometimes, the mouthpieces of ethnic groups. The first facial validity may also come from a quarter like the media. Religion has been cited by some observers as a factor; yet, it can be exploited and manipulated. The problem with religious bigotry is that it may permit only the promotion of one side of the coin. The religious associations seldom think alike in their political interventions. They defend real, imagined or perceived interest of their sect or religion, sometimes in sheer insensitivity to the interest of other religions. Thus, while the Muslim-dominated North is assiduously working for the actualisation of a Muslim/Muslim ticket in the ruling party, some Christians in the South are uncritically raising eyebrows. How have the standard bearers complied with these seeming non-negotiable criteria? How are they resolving the odds? The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, moved swiftly to name his running mate, Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, probably to score a point in a hurry. But, how meaningful is speed without accuracy, judging by the contrasting intra-party reactions to his decision? Indisputably, the choice of Okowa has compounded the challenge of post-primary reconciliation in the main opposition party. Atiku was trying to avoid a situation whereby an influential bloc in the PDP would persuade him to pick his rival at the primary, Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike. While 14 of 17 members in the search team were said to have recommended Wike, the candidate opted for Okowa, who allegedly got three votes. At issue is whether Atiku realistically engaged the pro-Wike forces before turning down the report of the committee and opted for his Delta State counterpart. It is the third time the Waziri Adamawa would be accused of lack of extensive consultation. As candidate of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), he had opted for Senator Ben Obi. The Southwest wing of the party was scandalised. Many chieftains cried foul, lamenting that an experienced politician made an avoidable mistake. Yet, the mistake was repeated in 2019. Southeast governors complained in hush tones that they were never informed before Peter Obi, former governor of Anambra State, was picked by him as running mate on the platform of the PDP. The Atiku/Wike post-primary tango has underscored the fact of a habitual blunder. A wrong judgment is not an ingredient of political intelligence. But, who can blame the Waziri? He may also be  acting from the vantage point of experience. Atiku was conscious of the risk posed by a strong person, a rival and fighter. He may have been instructed by the lessons of the resultant cat and mouse relationship that has become part of contemporary history: Adekunle Ajasin/Akin Omoboriowo, Ambrose Ali/Demas Akpore, Bola Ige/Sunday Afolabi, Bola Tinubu/Kofoworola Akerele-Bucknor, Rotimi Akeredolu/Agboola Ajayi, Olusegun Mimiko/Ali Olanusi, Ayo Fayose/Abiodun Aluko, Orji Kalu/Enyinnaya Abaribe, Seyi Makinde/Rauf Olaniyan, Ibikunle Amosun/Segun Adesegun, among others. The candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, appears to be more clever. So far, he is strategically slow, but steady in announcing a decision. He has put in place an expendable vice, thereby conveying an inconclusive process. Observers, stakeholders and other anxious Nigerians are steered into a debate of national significance on who should be his running mate, where he should come from and the nature of the process that should bring him up. What can be discerned from the scenario is that those who will eventually vote for the ticket seem to have an opportunity to contribute to the debate. The consequence is the development of emotional attachment to the joint ticket in the embryo. There is no need to rush. Until the inputs of those who matter are collated, it may not be wise to unveil a running mate whose selection would appear to be essentially divisive and potentially destabilising. The New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP) candidate, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, has found the choice a herculean task. The main strength of the party is Kano, now buoyed by Alhaji Ibrahim Shekarau’s defection to the fold. Veteran political foes are closing ranks. If Kwankwaso, a former governor and one-time minister, had not defected from the APC, it is likely he would have been a serious contender for running mate in the ruling party. It has become increasingly difficult for him to shop for a suitable running mate, following the breakdown of the NNPP/Labour Party (LP) alliance talk. From the beginning, it was a proposed alliance that was destined to fail. What idea was driving it? Where was the meeting point? Are the NNPP and LP blueprints the same?   Sallah: Remain steadfast in prayers for peace – Gombe…     Eid-El-Kabir: Only peace, oneness can ensure stability of…     Eid-el-Kabir: APC chieftain urges Nigerians to reflect on…   The former Kano governor dangled the carrot at Peter Obi, who also wanted the engineer to be his own running mate. There was a clash of ambitions and egos, suspicion and mistrust. Kwankwaso appeared to be realistic. He was only disposed to making the LP a junior partner in the NNPP/LP deal. Obi, in a fit of excitement at the growing population of “Obedient” faithful in the social media, could not digest the gist. It was a moment of emotional wrenching for the presidential hopeful. Kwankwaso will name a running mate even tually. But, it is doubtful if his choice, at the end of the day, will garner any substantial vote from the South. Obi is facing the same difficulty. He claims to be surrounded by obedient youths today. What is the assurance that they will not be disobedient on Election Day? How formidable is the LP as a political structure? The LP has been at crossroads since Kwankwaso told Obi that he could only be his running mate. His motive is the driver’s seat. He has got it on the platform of LP. But it is not enough. He is gazing at the North for a partner. How formidable will his running mate from the North be, in view of the influence of APC and PDP in the region, and now NNPP in Kano and few areas? The search for a running mate is an element of presidential system. Nigeria’s experience is exciting and at the same time worrisome. The distribution of presidential candidate and running mate tends to follow the pattern of a quota system, federal character, catchment area and “turn by turn”. Ordinarily, the first criterion should be competence. It is not a serious problem because competent and capable people who can be vice president abound across the major parties. Other issues in the choice of a running mate aptly reflect the nature and character of the unitarised federating country. They include ethnic consideration, geo-political balance, North-South dichotomy, majority-minority squabble, gender balance, and religion. In some instances, age (old/young) is also a factor. These factors, in many instances, are also applicable at the state, and even local government levels. However, the candidates also have one sole criterion. It is loyalty. This is often tested in the time of grave crisis and emergency. A former President and some governors who thought they had picked loyal deputies later regretted their choices. The Fourth Republic is replete with cases of personality clashes between president and vice president, many governors and their deputies who were eventually shoved aside through impeachment. It also happened among chairmen and vice chairmen of local governments. In contrast, the parliamentary system is insulated from these anxieties, more or less. The prime minister is elected from the Parliament as an elected legislator, only if his party wins the majority seats. In the First Republic, there was no official deputy prime minister, although some historians suggested that the powerful Minister of Defence, Alhaji Muhammadu Ribadu, a northerner, played the role. In the Second Republic, the vice presidency was not considered to be a big position. It was like a spare tyre. Alhaji Shehu Shagari of the National Party of Nigeria (NPN) had wanted to pick a woman from Anambra State. She politely declined, saying she could not cope with the murky waters. She was also said to have alluded to the age-long culture that subjugated womenfolk. Therefore, Shagari settled for an inexperienced and unpopular party chieftain, Chief Alex Ekwueme, a successful architect, matured and intelligent person. He was loyal to his boss. But, the main opposition Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) presidential candidate, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, picked Chief Philip Umeadi from the Southeast. Many believed that it was a choice made in error. It was made in utter insensitivity to geo-political balance. But that consideration was not a big issue at that time as it has become today. Consequently, Awo was not only rejected by many northerners, but also by the Southeast. Four years later, when he chose Alhaji Muhammadu Kura (Makaman Misau), a First Republic Federal parliamentarian, as running mate, it was still futile. Kura never added any substantial value to the ticket, although he was a credible politician. The Nigerian Peoples Party (NPP) candidate, Dr. Nnamidi Azikiwe, picked Prof. Ishaya Audu, a former Vice Chancellor of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria. The North did not vote for him beyond Plateau State. Yet, Plateau, Imo and Anambra votes were not enough to make Zik the president. It, therefore, means that while geo-political, ethnic and religious balancing are important, they do not work in isolation. Only a suitable combination of all factors can make the ticket to get to the Promised Land. The most formidable ticket, so far, was that of Abiola/Kingibe. At the 1993 Jos convention, the business mogul, Chief Mosbood Abiola, had defeated Ambassador Babagana Kingibe. But Social Democratic Party (SDP) governors and state chairmen insisted that Abioda should pick Kingibe, instead of Atiku, who was put forward by Major-General Shehu Yar’Adua. Abiola sensed danger. He embraced the choice of the governors and party leaders. The combination swept the poll across the land. The rest is history. In 1999, PDP candidate, General Olusegun Obasanjo, chose Atiku, governor-elect of Adamawa State, instead of Alhaji Abubakar Rimi or Prof. Ango Abdullahi. He wanted a loyalist, and a political capital from the residue of Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM), Yar’Adua political machinery. The romance did not last. Eight years later, when Obasanjo sponsored Umaru Yar’Adua as candidate, he also chose as his running mate a least expected person, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, then governor of Bayelsa State. Jonathan eventually became President after Yar’Adua’s demise, with a member of the PDP Governors’ Forum, gentleman Namadi Sambo of Kaduna State, as running mate. They won the first term, but lost second term. Up came Muhammadu Buhari of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), and his running mate, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, a nominal politician chosen by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu of defunct ACN, under the banner of APC. For the ruling party, 2023 is a year of greater stakes and expectations. Its presidential ticket has to fulfill diverse aspirations. Already, Tinubu’s candidacy has satisfied the yearning for zoning and power shift. There’s a lot more after rotation. The centres of interest and influence include President Buhari and the old CPC bloc, the Northern Caucus of the party, Northern APC Governors’ Forum, sentiment of the Northwest comprising seven states, complexity of ethnic balancing and religious sensitivity, competence and general wish of Nigerians. To avoid any pitfall and wrong decision, the watchword is extensive consultation. The aggregation of the decisions garnered in the course of wide consultation would point at the best direction to take in the choice of a running mate.