A new educational technology platform, GetBundi, was launched in Lagos recently to help equip youths across Africa with high-quality, engaging and accessible Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education and digital skills. In this interview, Osita Oparaugo, founder/CEO of GetBundi, shares insights about the platform and why STEM learning is relevant to Africa. Excerpts: You launched GetBundi recently to drive STEM learning and STI digital skills across Africa. Why is STEM learning so important to Africa? Yes, the platform is dedicated to STEM learning. The STI Digital Skills will be launched on the platform on October 1st, 2022. STEM learning is so important to Africa because science and technology plays a very critical role in nation building. To build infrastructure, one needs civil engineers; to exploit our natural resources, one needs scientists; to manufacture goods, one needs technology. Africa is in low supply of its own kind of these persons. Either they are in diaspora or so underrepresented that governments have to hire expatriates, keep borrowing or depend majorly on foreign entities. With STEM learning, Africa can be the king of its own development and compete globally in the realm of science and innovation. The platform also targets secondary education? Why is this so? Secondary school-aged students have a better appreciation of education than those in primary. They are at the stage where they have received the building blocks of education from the primary level. So, what next? They will be able to understand the GetBundi platform and be able to utilise it properly. Sadly in Africa, only about 13 percent to 20 percent of students who enter the university each year study STEM-related fields. It means the like or dislike of STEM is in the secondary education level, hence our approach. Again, for those in tertiary education, or business owners, our upcoming STI Digital Skills learning is targeted to them. Those at that level would have chosen a degree path and so it is best to help them develop skills useful to support them during and after learning, while they focus on their tertiary education. In clear terms, who is GetBundi meant for, and why should anyone go for it? GetBundi STEM is meant for you if you are a student. It is meant for you as a parent if you want your kids to excel in science and technology. Schools need it as teachers’ aid and continuous assessment for students. So also government agencies, NGOs and lovers of STEM education if they want to help build an Africa beyond aid. GetBundi STI is meant for everyone who wants to learn digital skills mostly in graphics, video editing, coding and digital marketing. You should go for it, and support the platform because we are here to serve Africans and give them the skills they require to compete globally. STEM education has been described as the bedrock of any meaningful development. Could you give instances of countries that have benefitted from STEM education? Singapore is an excellent example to use because this is a country with no natural resources. It was a third world nation, rife with all the issues African nations face today. Yet, through investment in science and technology, they transformed their nation to be a first world country in less than 50 years. China went from no flush to building space stations within 40 years all credit to STEM.   US welcomes ECOWAS agreement on transition in Mali     Paramount Africa examines on-screen diversity to improve…     Oparaugo to sub-Saharan Africa govts: embrace STEM   Is GetBundi conceived as a replacement for the physical classroom? Or what exactly will be the relationship between the two? No. First of all, GetBundi is not designed to be a replacement for the traditional method of teaching. Rather, the relationship GetBundi has with the traditional secondary school is to supplement the teaching and learning process, whether as a teacher’s aid, study companion, revision guide, etc. We are here to support both teachers and students. What is the cost of subscription to the GetBundi platform? We offer three (3) tiers of payment which provide unlimited access to GetBundi. We have 90 days at N10,000 or $20; 180 days at N18,000 or $36; 365 days at N25,000 or $50. Poverty and low internet penetration in Africa could deny many people access to GetBundi. Do you have plans or strategies to bypass these barriers and ensure that the product gets to the people who need it the most? Yes, indeed. We already have an understanding with EutelSat, which is still in the works, to provide satellite-based internet. This ensures that our product gets to those who need it regardless of their geographic location. Internet adoption in Africa has increased to nearly 54 percent and many more countries are improving on their infrastructure. We are also in talks with phone and tablet manufacturers to work out possible collaborations that will allow our apps on those devices run without internet. While STEM adoption is low in Africa, it is worse among girls. How does GetBundi plan to encourage more girls into STEM? When we engage with NGOs, we tend towards those who have the girl-child as priority. This ensures we reach the girls disadvantaged as a result of their gender. Our parent company has a Foundation that will invest 10 percent of our gross profit towards charity and half of it is targeted towards the girl-child. Considering the importance of STEM learning to Africa, are you working with regional organizations in the continent on this project? For now, we are having talks with the African Union (AU), Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the Southern African Development Community (SADC), as well as some state governments in Nigeria