Africa will have a new women’s champion tomorrow when South Africa battles host Morocco for the Women African Cup of Nations (WAFCON) title but before then, a wounded Super Falcons of Nigeria will take on an equally embittered Copper Queens of Zambia in the loser’s final tonight at the  Stade Mohammed V, Casablanca. Both teams lost their respective semifinals in controversial circumstances. First, the Queens were bundled out via a last-minute penalty to Bayana Bayana of South Africa while the Falcons, despite playing a large part of the match with nine players were able to hold the host Morocco to a 1-1 draw in regulation and extra time but losing 4-5 on penalties. OLUWAMAYOMIKUN OREKOYA writes. After failing in their quest to reach the tenth final, the Super Falcons of Nigeria will face the Copper Queens of Zambia in the third place match of the ongoing 2022 Women’s Africa Cup of Nations (WAFCON) tonight. Both teams have already booked a spot at the 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup. The winning team will get the bronze medal while the losing team will finish overall fourth in the tournament. The Falcons won many hearts despite losing their semi-finals clash with host Atlas Lionesses of Morocco on Monday night. Many supporters across Africa praised the Falcons despite losing 5-4 on penalties after a 1-1 draw in regular time and extra time for their doggedness after playing most of the second half and extra time with nine players after Halimatu Ayinde and Rasheedat Ajibade were red carded in the 48th and 70th minutes, respectively. On the other hand, the Copper Queens were silenced 1-0 in the semifinal by South Africa with Linda Motlhalo’s last-minute penalty sending them packing. Before then, the Copper Queens drew 0-0 with Cameroon in their opening match, before 1-0 and 4-1 wins over Tunisia and Togo respectively shot them to the quarter-finals, where they edged Senegal 4-2 after a penalty shootout. The soon-to-be dethroned champions started their WAFCON journey with a 2-1 defeat to Bayana Bayana of South Africa before bouncing back with a 2-0 victory over debutants the Mares of Botswana. The team would end their Group C campaign by trashing another debutante the Swallows of Burundi 4-0 to finish second and step up a tough quarterfinal clash with neighbours and rivals Cameroon with the winners securing automatic qualification for the 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup.  Rasheedat Ajibade scored the only goal as the Falcons beat the Indomitable Lioness to book a ticket to Australia and New Zealand next year. Despite the disappointing result against Morocco, Super Falcons coach Randy Waldrum hailed his team’s spirited display in the defeat, also sharing his thoughts on the officiating in the game. Against the Copper Queens, the American gaffer is optimistic that the Super Falcons will give their all despite a rash of injuries and suspensions in the camp of the nine-time champions. “We have two players suspended as a result of red cards in the last game, and we also have some players down with an injury. So, there will be changes but we will go for the best legs that would give us victory on Friday (today).”   Brighton reject £30m Man City bid for Cucurella     Oshoala claims record  fifth CAF best award     Musa rues Eagles Qatar 2022  miss    Captain Onome Ebi has been knocked out by a hamstring injury (biceps femoris muscle tear – Grade 2) and could require between six weeks to two months to recover while forward Rasheedat Ajibade, who has been a cornerstone of Nigeria’s campaign with some mesmerizing moves, measured pull-outs and three goals to the kitty, picking up the Woman of the Match award in the quarter-final defeat of Cameroon along the way, is out of Friday’s encounter alongside tenacious midfielder Halimatu Ayinde. Both were sent out in the match against the host nation. “We have a mountain to surmount, surely, but we are ready and will approach the game like the Final match,” defender Ashleigh Plumptre said at yesterday’s pre-match conference. Meanwhile, The Copper Queens coach, Bruce Mwape, expects a tough match against the Super Falcons but believes his team can still manage to get one over on the record nine-time Champions. “We will take it very seriously since it is the last game of the tournament. We will make sure we go with medals, although we have already won some player of the match accolades what we want is to go with the third place medals, as far as I’m concerned we stand a good chance,” He told Zamfoot. “Nigeria is a formidable team; they have mature players playing especially in Europe. They are very strong but when we look at our team I think we have got a team of young players who can last over 120 minutes and I think we can have an upper hand because some of the Nigerian women are now aging.” Mwape will bank on team captain Grace Chanda to inspire the Copper Queens against the Super Falcons. Chanda has been the rallying point of the southern African nation since the beginning of the tournament, in the absence of the talismanic Barbara Banda. Zambian goalkeeper Hazel Nali (injured against South Africa) is doubtful for today’s encounter, Nigeria would again rely on the agility and awareness of goalkeeper Chiamaka Nnadozie, whose string of saves kept the Falcons in the game against Morocco until the penalty shootout. She was highly deserving of her Woman of the Match award in that tie. With Ebi out, Waldrum could start with the US-based Payne sisters (Toni and Nicole) on either side of the rear wings, with Osinachi Ohale and Plumptre at centreback. Peace Efih, who scored one of the goals in the 4-0 defeat of Burundi in the group stage, could start in the absence of Ayinde, with the effervescent Gift Monday a probable to start in place of the suspended Ajibade at the fore. Both teams have met twice in the WAFCON with the Falcons winning both games with a 10-0 aggregate win. They first squared off in the 2014 edition where the Falcons thoroughly thrashed their South African rivals 6-0 at the Sam Nujoma Stadium, Windhoek in Namibia courtesy of goals from Ngozi Okobi-Okeoghene, Osinachi Ohale, Desire Oparanozie, Asisat Oshoala, and the legendary Perpetua Nkwocha. The two would later meet at the 2018 edition in Ghana with the Falcons again beating the copper queens 4-0 with goals coming from Oparanozie, Francisca Ordega, Rasheedat Ajibade, and Amarachi Okoronkwo.