Rivers Southeast erstwhile Senator Magnus Abe has said he remains a member of the presidential campaign team of All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Abe spoke on a national television programme yesterday in Abuja after he officially resigned his membership of the APC in Rivers State. He said: “I have since left the APC in Rivers State but the letter circulating round is not from me. I am still part of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s family and have no issue with him whatsoever. “I am a part of Asiwaju Tinubu’s political family and I’m also part of his own family. That is a very separate thing, from the politics of Rivers State. “Yesterday (on Tuesday), there were some funny letters circulating on the internet that I have resigned from the APC because Asiwaju refused to intervene in the politics of Rivers State. That is ridiculous. All politics is local. I have no interest whatsoever in the APC in Rivers State…”   ‘Kerosene price rose by 12.09% in June’     Dockworkers shut terminals     CAF AWARDS 2022: Oshoala may pick record fifth African …   Also, a former Ogun State House of Assembly Speaker Samson Tunji Egbetokun has urged Nigerians to rally round the presidential bid of Asiwaju Tinubu to ensure its actualisation on February 25, 2023. Egbetokun said apart from the fact that Asiwaju Tinubu has what it takes to lead the country to greatness, discerning Yoruba also need no persuasion to know that this is the time to support their kinsman. Egbetokun, who is the Senior Special Adviser on Political Affairs to Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun stated this while addressing reporters after he received another batch of loyalists of former Governor Ibikunle Amosun who joined Dapo Abiodun’s team from Obafemi-Owode Local Government Area. The former Speaker described his guests as competent grassroots mobilisers who will be very valuable for the 2023 elections. “This is the right time to embrace everybody. It is my prayer that God will give our people the wisdom to do the right thing this season we are entering. This is the time for them to come. “We now have our own, a Yoruba man, as a presidential candidate. I think that anybody who is sensible must know that at this time we must come out to support our kinsman, a Yoruba man who is a presidential candidate. “We know them very well, and these are people who can work very well at the grassroots. When it comes to going to the grassroots and work, they are very competent. “This is the right time for them to come. Everything has been shared and we going into another election season. Anybody that is politically wise knows that this is the time to work and not to drive people away,” he said.