It is not unusual nowadays to hear diplomats from western nations lament the destabilising role that China, Russia and their cahoot of renegade states play within the international system. Germany’s new chancellor, Olaf Scholz, recently described the invasion of Ukraine as a Zeitenwende, a historical turning point in the rules-based international system. On May 8, in commemoration of the end of the Second World War in Europe, the leaders of the G7 released a joint statement affirming that Russia’s action violated the principles upon which the post second world war system had been constructed. China’s actions in Taiwan, the South China sea, have been described in similar terms—as threatening the stability of the international order and tearing at the fabric of the rules-based system. The end of the second world war ushered in a new approach to international relations. Unlike the League of Nations which had not legally outlawed war, the UN was designed with the ambition to prevent future wars through international law. For instance, the preamble of the United Nations Charter opened with these words: “We the peoples of the United Nations determined to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind…establish conditions under which justice and respect for the obligations arising from treaties and other sources of international law can be maintained.” To ensure this agenda of peace was realised, the framers of the UN Charter outlined guiding principles to regulate the relations amongst states in Article 2 (1-7). In article 2(1), the Charter maintained that the organisation would operate on the basis of the sovereign equality of member states. In article 2(4), it outlawed wars of aggression by enjoining all states to refrain from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of other states. The argument, therefore is that, by acting with impunity these states threaten to completely upend this post war order. But the important question here is, how valid is this argument? Let us be clear, both countries are serial violators of international law and their actions often put international peace and stability in jeopardy. In October 2021, the Chinese air force sent 150 aircrafts into Taiwan’s air defence identification zone within a period of four days. It has continued such provocations this year too, prompting US president, Joe Biden, to abandon his country’s long-standing policy of ‘strategic ambiguity’ regarding how it will deal with a possible invasion of Taiwan by China. Russia’s litany of violations of the principles of international law need not be rehashed here. They are visible to the blind and audible to the deaf. But this is not the whole story.   Godwin Kienka: Why Nigerian sports is ‘going round in…     Onyekuru: I could stay in Galatasaray forever     Adesola Adeyemi: My experience on international runway has…   Western states have acted with similar contempt for international laws and norms. The US’ led invasion of Iraq is perhaps one of the best-known examples, but there were others too— for instance, the invasion of Panama in 1989 by the US. There have also been several CIA sponsored coups in Latin America that deposed regimes and destabilised these states. In a landmark decision in 1986, the International Court of Justice found that the US’ military activities in Nicaragua violated international law. Yet, the US did not only disregard the ICJ’s judgement, but actively prevented Nicaragua from obtaining the remedy granted it by the international court. In essence, the narrative that Russia and China are the maleficent forces whose actions threaten the supposed rules-based system does not hold up in the face of critical scrutiny.  In fact, a more legitimate question is whether the supposed rules-based system ever took off. I argue to the contrary. The Cold War began almost immediately after the second World War and during it, states of the global south were routinely invaded or politically interfered with. The ideological contest between liberal capitalism and communism provided a pretence for the wars of proxy that the west and the USSR engaged in. From Vietnam to Afghanistan, Congo to Angola, we in the global south never saw those supposed rules operationalised. Indeed, it is not provocative to insist that claims of the existence of a rules-based system shows an unawareness of, and a complete disregard of the history of aggression by both western actors and the USSR in the affairs of the global south. The end of the cold war did not bring much succour either. The west’s aerial bombing of Kosovo in 1998 was illegal even if it was adjudged to have had ‘humanitarian intentions’. The US continues to routinely violate the sovereignty of states such as Pakistan and Somalia by launching drone attacks or military expeditions in its war on terror. The reality is that this avowed rules-based international system is not in jeopardy, it was stillbirth. It never took off. The international system is one that is mostly based on power politics, not on rules. If rules exist at all, they exist only for the weak, for the small states.