FOR Efe Irele, acting came calling while she wasn’t looking the route. The beautiful actress, who ventured into the make believe world in 2015 has since produced 15 movies and acted in countless of them. She tells ADENIYI ADEWOYIN how her acting career kicked off after acting the vixen in Adekunle Gold’s popular song, ‘Sade,’ among other issues. Would you say your journey into acting started with ‘being in Nollywood?’ I actually started acting before that. So being in Nollywood was an initiative of the owner of Rok TV Mary Njoku. At the point, she said she wanted to start a reality show where she brought about five upcoming actors, who she felt were doing good in their own ways. That’s why you thought so, but I have been acting before that. It was actually a Rok series in 2016 that was the first time ever. A lot of people must have thought you just came and blew up like that, tell us about the journey I know right. They think it’s magic and people just blow up like that without hard work. I don’t just understand. But I started in 2015. How has it been since then? It’s been tough but it’s been an amazing journey and I’m always appreciative of every single step that I take in my life. The tough times have taught me and made me stronger for everything that I am going through now and I’m only just getting started by the way. Would you say 2015 was when you got your big break into stardom? I don’t know what to define as a big break. I won’t say one movie in particular gave me my big break, I think every movie that I did just put me a step forward to that point that I needed to be. Yes 2015/2016 was that period where I started personally and I started taking acting seriously. What were you doing before acting? Before acting, I owned an event management company and before that I used to work as an Human Resource manager because I have a masters in Human Resource management. So, I did that for not up to a year because I was frustrated in the job and I just wanted to get out of there. Interestingly, before that job, I was into TV modeling and I kind of knew that I loved being in front of the camera. It was a weird transition, I never really knew that I wanted to act but I knew that I loved watching movies and re-enacting things in the house with my parents and my siblings and I also used to do appearances in music videos. For me, it was when I did Adekunle Gold’s Sade. So when I did that, my manager was like a lot of people started asking after me for acting roles just like that and I started falling in love with acting going to auditions regularly until I finally got my role in ‘Aso Ebi.’ It’s been seven years of active acting, how have you been able to handle fame? This thing called fame, I think a lot of people look at it differently. For me, it’s what you make it. Obviously it’s very different now that you can go out and people recognise and try to come close kind of. It was weird at first, it was very weird even for my family, my dad (may God rest his soul) I just lost him this year May 2, he would freak out when people would call because he was very protective of me but it was weird at first but I kind of got used to it like yeah, this is my new life.  What is your most exciting experience with a male admirer? Nobody can thrill me. I feel like I’ve always been a fine girl so the fame is not even doing extra. So I’ve not had any admirer that has thrilled me, everything is just normal, nothing extra. Are you in a relationship? Yes I am.   Community leader hails Achievers Varsity for scholarship…     Siemens: Nigeria’s mega transformers pass factory test     Niger Gov sacks DG SDG, NSUBEB chairman   One of your colleagues once said there’s no actor in a serious relationship that loves truly, what’s your take on that? Who said that let me go and hold the person’s neck (laughs). I don’t think that’s true. A lot of people believe that actors and actresses cheat a lot, how true is that? All human beings cheat. Everyone cheats in one way or the other and not just in relationships. Are you saying you also cheat? No I don’t. Why do you keep your relationship off social media? Because as much as there is fame, I like to keep certain parts of my life to myself and enjoy it on my own. It’s almost the same way even with family. I don’t always post my family so much so I like having that moment for myself. The crashed union of some of your colleagues have proven that celebrity relationships don’t last. What is your take on this trend? I don’t know what you are talking about but it’s like every human being, we all have our faults, but people now generalise it because we are at the forefront of the general public. Every human being in every aspect of life will falter, no one is perfect at the end of the day. Do you believe in the saying ‘what will be, will be’? Yes, you just have to allow the universe to take control. Anything can change but at the end of the day, it is not in anyone’s power, you just have to allow it and let life happen. Have you produced any movies? I have a whole lot of movies that I have produced. I’ve been producing for three years now. I have produced about 15 movies. What movie are you working on now? There’s a movie out in cinemas in July, myself and Timini. It’s a movie that Nollywood hasn’t seen before. It’s something juicy and steamy and it is rated 18. Are you ready for the backlash considering who you are co-acting with on such a movie? (Laughs) Yes, I am ready for anything. Timini and I have been friends for over 15 years now even before fame so there’s nothing anyone can tell me because that’s my gee.