Otunba Sola Olatunji, a Lagos-based businessman and a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is passionate about the aspiration of the party’s National Leader and presidential flag bearer, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. In this interview with Deputy Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU and RAYMOND MORDI, Olatunji, who is also the chairman of Ikale Heritage Development Association, speaks on next year’s general election, and the chances of the ruling party You promised recently to mobilise 10 million votes for Asiwaju Bola Tinubu in next year’s presidential election. How do you intend to achieve this? Yes, I said that in the Southwest geo-political zone, we should be able to mobilize 10 million votes for Asiwaju; that the era of the Southwest returning low turnout in elections should be put in the past. This time around, we must galvanise or mobilize our people to first get their PVC and secondly to get them out of their homes to vote during the election. We are not going to focus mainly on city centres; we are going to the nook and crannies of the country to bring people out. Some people will collect their PVCs and put them under their pillow. Owing to the fact that we need their votes, we will go and remind them because we don’t want a situation where people from the other side (the north) will beat us to it. Yes, our counterparts from the north have done very well for the APC and our leader, Tinubu, but we must key into this project first as our own because the man is our leader. If I want to look at him as a person, I will compare him with Abraham Lincoln of the United States of America, Lee Kuan Yew of Singapore, Nelson Mandela of South Africa, Julius Nyerere of Tanzania and Chief Obafemi Awolowo. This is because I’ve been around and I know how Lagos was and what it is today. Lagos has become the fifth largest economy in Africa. I am educated enough to know who changed the social landscape of Lagos, to create limitless opportunities for the people. It is still a work in progress; as of today, it is still a $136 billion economy and more work is still needed to take it to the next level. So, what do we need? Do we need a magician to take Lagos and the entire country to where they should be? It is very hard to find visionary leaders these days. We have one in Asiwaju. The man is not looking for money; he is only coming to revolutionalise the country by bringing his knowledge and entrepreneurial capacity to bear on leadership. This is because as a leader, you must have your strategy right to unleash the opportunities. One governor said recently that he was not elected to create wealth for the people. Nothing can be more farther from the truth; the governor in question is not fit to be on that seat. As a governor, you are elected to manage the resources of the state, both human and natural to instigate what is called limitless opportunities for the benefit of the citizens. If you don’t know how to do this, you are a failure. Looking at the record of Asiwaju everywhere, he is the man for the job. We must not allow this opportunity to pass by, so we must do everything possible to ensure that he becomes the next president of Nigeria come 2023. We are cocksure that once he becomes the president of Nigeria, all these social challenges we have around the country will just go down. The biggest challenge we have today is insecurity. Why do we have these challenges? It is because of a lack of inclusiveness, particularly social inclusiveness. If you don’t programmes that are targeted at our youth, which make up 40 per cent of our population, what do you expect? An idle hand is the devil’s workshop. If you don’t get your policies right or that the process of implementing your policies is an endless one, then you will see all manner of social vices. Today, people see kidnapping as a lucrative business. I am not saying that President Buhari has not done his best, but the government is a continuum. So, somebody will have to take it from where he stops. But, I am very sure that Asiwaju will come and change the narrative in this country. People built America after the crisis that followed its civil war; somebody built Singapore; somebody built all these industrialized countries that we are4 talking about.  Countries like India, Singapore and Malaysia were at the level with Nigeria about 60 years ago. So, what happened? It is leadership that changed those countries. We must address our leadership challenge; once we do that, everything will fall into place. Do you believe that Tinubu has the expertise to transform this country? The answer is very obvious. A man who has worked in several multinational organisations, Arthur Anderson consulting firm and other companies in the US, as well as Exon Mobil in Nigeria where he rose to become the company treasurer. In 1992, he joined politics and was to be the Senate president, but he decided to withdraw for the late Chief Moshood Abiola. Eventually, he became the governor of Lagos State. Looking back, look at the revolution that has happened in Lagos; how was Lagos 25 years ago? The internally generated revenue (IGR) of the state was 600 million. But, the man came and within a short space of time, the state’s IGR shot up to N8 billion. Before he left office, he was already N11 or N12 billion monthly. It takes a genius to achieve that kind of milestone. What the man did was to put Lagos on autopilot. He rode on the back of reforms; he crested institutions and empowered them. Today, Lagos is on autopilot. Within this short space of time, Lagos is generating between N45 billion and N51 billion as IGR monthly. When the state’s monthly allocation from the Federation Account was seized by former President Olusegun Obasanjo for years, what happened? The man did not bother; he brought his ingenuity into governance. From out of nothing, he built cities; including the Eko Atlantic City. Now investments are coming; today, for every $1 billion investment that is coming to Nigeria, $800 million is targetted at Lagos. Why? It is the most peaceful state in Nigeria. While in office as governor, he created the Lagos Security Trust Fund, the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) and many other schemes to make the Lagos environment peaceful. When an environment is peaceful, there would be an investment. Today, amid insecurity all over the security, people are trooping into Lagos daily because of the peaceful environment; it is the land of prosperity. What is your comment on the Muslim-Muslim ticket of the APC? Do you see it as something that can fly? I have written several publications on this topic a very long time ago, to the effect religion is different from politics. Those pastors that are using their pulpit to preach politics are committing a grievous sin. Religion is about faith; it is not about politics. Politics is about controlling the political leadership of the nation to be able to provide security and the welfare of the citizens, while religion is just about salvation. For me and so many Nigerians, it is not important. Whether you are a Christian or a Muslim, it has no bearing on our political decisions. Those who are insisting that it is a bad omen have a hidden agenda. Pastors using their pulpit to preach politics need forgiveness because the church is all about salvation; it has nothing to do with politics. If you are a pastor and you want to participate actively in politics, go and join a political party. If you are an Imam you want to participate in politics, go and join a political party. You don’t use religion to set an agenda for politicians. Even Europeans that brought religion to us a long time ago, fought against the idea of bringing religion into governance. The French revolution of 1789 spearheaded by Napoleon Bonaparte was fought because of the domineering influence of religion in politics. The revolution spread to Italy because in those days the Pope had a domineering influence on governance. Today, religion is a private matter; you don’t discuss it. It is only in Nigeria that when you want to conduct affairs, you will, first of all, say let us pray. Even in Saudi Arabia or Israel, they don’t do it. Today, pastors borrow money from banks to build churches and they usually renege on payment of such loans. Factories, where we were doing vacation jobs in the 70s, have been turned into mega-churches. We are embracing religion, rather than production because the factories will eventually employ young school leavers. They are using the same church platform to attach government. They are now the problem of this country; they behave as if they slept in the same flat as God. Are you saying the Tinubu/Shettima ticket is a good one for the country? It is a perfect match. What Nigerians don’t know is that Tinubu will not do anything without consulting. He consulted widely and the response was that it is the way to go. His running mate is a wonderful personality; he is an accomplished gentleman. He has what is called private sector knowledge and public knowledge as well. He is a cerebral person and he is a progressive person too. He is also a liberal character and that is what we need. We are tired of civil servants coming and saying they want to be this and they want to be that. We want people with corporate knowledge and private knowledge because if you don’t have private sector knowledge how can you create wealth? So, we now have two cerebral characters that flow together. So, you can see that they are the solutions to our problem. If you go and give them rubbish proposals to sign, they will not sign them. That is why there is noise everywhere. Look at the massive construction and the social intervention programmes being undertaken by (Governor Babagana) Zulum that he brought. Where did he get money for such projects? He has turned Borno into another Lagos. Shettima himself is a head hunter. In your view, how would the Tinubu/Shettima pair fair against Atiku Abubakar in the north? This is democracy and competition is allowed. But, if you ask for my opinion, Tinubu is already in Aso Rock Presidential Villa. As far as I am concerned, Atiku does not have any track record to showcase; apart from the fact that he retired as a Customs Officer and won a governorship election in Adamawa in 1999 and subsequently Obasanjo picked him as his running mate. He has not achieved anything that we can use as a yardstick to profile him; nothing. We are not interested in experimenting with anybody. Those we need are people that can find solutions to humanity’s problems. We are not interested in a novice; people who insist they can do it but have no track record. In your opinion, what are the issues that will dominate and decide the next presidential election? The only issue that will decide the next presidential election is Tinubu because, as far as I am concerned, there is no other candidate. Number two, his track record is there to speak for him. I don’t want to talk about religion because it is not relevant. We are going to get massive votes from the Southwest; we are not going to wait for our brothers from the north to do it alone.  Some of our brothers from the east have threatened that they are not going to vote for us. We will appeal to them because most of our brothers from the east achieved their prosperity here. So, they should support people where they are eating because we are not experimenting; Tinubu is already a phenomenon not only in Nigeria but all over the world. The race to Aso Rock is not for kindergarten candidates; it is for people who have planned it for over a long time. Asiwaju said it has been his ambition. There is nothing wrong with having ambition but when you do it is normal to plan for it, otherwise you will fail. So, the man has been planning and positioning people. If you compare him with the others, nobody has done what he has done.   Buhari celebrates Amusan, Brume over World Athletics feats     FCT taskforce begins massive demolition of…     Property destroyed as fire razes two-storey in Onitsha   What do you think of the Obi/Datti revolution going on now? The next presidential election is not going to be won on Twitter, Facebook and social media generally. During the APC presidential primary, Babafemi Ojudu and co went and hired some persons to shout on social media on behalf of their principal, the vice president. Even when he (Prof Yemi Osinbajo) had the golden opportunity to step down, his supporters were there shouting, ‘don’t step down’. At the end of the day, did that one translate to votes? So, Obi is a kindergarten and paper weight flag bearer. Rabiu Kwankwaso described him as a lightweight candidate that is not ready. I have nothing against Obi but they are the ones that brought anger into politics; he is always urging the youths to take back their country. How does that sound? This country belongs to all of us. We are not bothered by his social media rantings. How will you convince many Nigerians who are dissatisfied with the performance of the APC in the last seven years to vote for the party again next year? I can understand where you are coming from; the expectation of many Nigerians was high when President Buhari took over power in 2015. But, we often forget that so many things happened and there was no money; the price of oil fell below $30 per barrel before it started rebounding. So, it was a difficult situation to navigate. Two, I believe he has done well in some areas such as his social intervention programmes, it is novel. People have not been doing such in the past; what they have been doing is to go to Aso Rock, collect a humongous amount of money and say they want to embark on spiritual cleansing and all that. But, there was no money to collect when Buhari took over power. He has also done well in the area of fighting corruption. Government is a continuum; you don’t expect him to finish the job. For instance, the EFCC has done well under him, though I don’t like the way its operatives do propaganda on the pages of newspapers. He has also done well in the area of building infrastructure; railways, roads and the airport. He has done what no government has done in the last 30 years in that regard. The challenge we have is insecurity, but it is not peculiar to Nigeria; there is insecurity all over the world, including in America which got independence over 200 years ago. But, I can assure you that by the time Asiwaju comes in, he will tackle insecurity the way he tackled it in this Lagos. As a father, you must be worried about the protracted ASUU strike. What do you think is the way forward? It is very painful that our children have been at home for the last five months, rather than being at school. I think Mr President is to blame for this. I don’t know why it is difficult for him to call ASUU leadership for a meeting to discuss the issues face-to-face. If he had done that, the matter would have been resolved within 24 hours. Government officials are not bothered about the strike; they are paying lip service to it because they have their children in schools abroad. We will only tackle the problems in the educational sector effectively when we enact a law that would ban elected or appointed officials from sending their children to school abroad. What is the aim of setting up the Ikale Heritage Development Association? The association was a child of necessity. It was set up to serve as a social mobilisation platform to mobilise our people to collaborate with the government to achieve their aspirations, as well as a mouthpiece for our people to influence the government to serve their needs. During the Covid-19 era, we distributed palliative worth over N25 million. Just last year, we were able to give out grants worth about N15 million to our people. So, courtesy of the Lagos State Government, recently we gave out free medical treatment to about 100 people in Lagos and we are planning to give about 300 health insurance covers to our people in August because health, they say, is wealth. In every society, if you don’t have a voice as a people, it would be difficult for the government to recognize you as a stakeholder. Government is indeed for everyone, but you must have a voice to be recognised. We thank God that we have a voice now and everybody is falling in line by embracing this social mobilisation platform and we are better for it. All our leaders, all our people back home and the Diaspora have embraced it and are supporting us. All our traditional rulers at home are commending our effort. Eighty per cent of our sons and daughters, particularly those that are well-to-do are on this platform. The Lagos State Government has also been very supportive. We are citizens of the country and cannot ignore the importance of the government. But, we also have to play our part as a people, to earn its support. This association was set up in 2018 or 2019 and we have started to mobilise our people for next year’s general election. Everywhere, people are excited about what we are doing. In recognition of what we are doing, the Lagos State Government has recognized us and has been supporting us.   Story By OLADESU and RAYMOND MORDI, Olatunji