A Federal High Court in Abuja yesterday told the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) to transmission David Ukpo’s bio-data to the United Kingdom court where Ike Ekweremadu and his wife, Beatrice are facing alleged organ harvest charges. The court ordered the National Identification Management Commission (NIMC) to pass the information on Ukpo’s bio-data to the AGF. The order came on a day the Council of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Council of Elders of Ohanaeze Ndigbo requested to make a legal representation at the trial of the former deputy president. Ukpo is the young man, who Ekweremadu and his wife claimed agreed to donate his kidney to their ailing daughter. The fresh order issued yesterday by Justice Inyang Ekwo was a variation of the earlier one directing the NIMC and some banks to volunteer similar information to Ekweremadu and his wife. The variation became necessary in view of information by lawyer to the NIMC that the standard procedure was for the biodata to be released to the AGF. At the commencement of yesterday’s proceedings, NIMC lawyer Muazu Mohammed, told the court that his client could not comply with the earlier directive because it was not served with hearing notice before the order was made against it. Mohammed urged the court to review the order and direct NIMC to give the information on Ukpo to the AGF instead of Ekweremadu, for onward transmission to the UK court. Lawyer to Ekweremadu and his wife, Adegboyega Awomolo (SAN) agreed with Mohammed. In his ruling, Justice Ekwo ordered NIMC to submit the Ukpo’s personal information to the AGF for onward transmission to UK court.   Fed Govt: petrol scarcity will linger until full…     Buhari: Barkindo was a national asset     I will make a difference, says Umana   Ekweremadu and his wife had stated, in a motion, that they require the information for their defence. In a letter to Senate President Ahmad Lawan, Ohanaeze Elders’ Council expressed the determination to be part of Ekweremadu’s defence. The letter dated July 5 and titled: “Travail of our illustrious son Senator Ike Ekweremadu”, was signed by the Chairman of the Council, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu. He said the Ohanaeze Ndigbo World Wide would “defend any honest and patriotic citizen whose right and freedom is being unduly trampled upon anywhere in the world”. Iwuanyanwu noted that the news about the arrest of the former deputy senate president with his wife in London was received with shock in many places, especially within the rank and file of the umbrella body of all Igbo Socio-Cultural  Organisation (the Ohanaeze Ndigbo) where he said Ekweremadu is a very active member. The elder statesman expressed delight that the true story about the predicament of the embattled couple had begun to manifest. He said: “We do not have any doubt whatsoever that the truth will emerge and our son and his wife will be vindicated. We are however happy and profoundly appreciative of your solidarity to your dear colleague and friend during this trying period”. The organisation prayed that the Almighty God would visit Ekweremadu’s sick daughter.   Story By Eric Ikhilae, Abuja and Chris Njoku, Owerri