DANIEL ESSIET highlights the activities of the Regional Universities Forum for Capacity Building in Agriculture, which is helping universities to provide technologies to address hunger and unemployment. REGIONAL Universities Forum for Capacity Building in Agriculture (RUFORUM), based in Uganda, has been working with universities across the continent to improve food security, fight global warming and tackle youth employment. The organisation is driving the Transforming Food and Agricultural Systems through Research in Partnership with Africa (TSARA), launched during the Paris International Agricultural Show in March. It aims to work with the European Union (EU) and the African Union (AU) to develop high-quality research in agriculture. The TSARA programme focuses  on creating a portfolio of research, training and innovation support projects that adhere to a medium- to long-term scientific agenda based on the following priority areas, namely, soil, water and forests under climate change; the agro-ecological transition of agriculture and livestock farming; food system sustainability; human, animal and landscape health; and work and employment. The 20 African institutions in 14 countries, namely, South Africa, Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, Kenya, Madagascar, Mali, Morocco, Mozambique, Senegal, Tunisia and Zimbabwe, are working  with  two French research institutes, the French Agricultural Research Centre for International Development and France’s National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and Environment in the project. The three sub-regional organisations involved in developing TSARA are the Permanent Interstate Committee for Drought Control in the Sahel, or CILSS, the International Centre for Research-Development of Animal Husbandry in sub-humid zones, or CIRDES, and CORAF – an international non-profit association of national agricultural research systems in 22 countries in West and Central Africa. Executive Secretary, RUFORUM, Prof Adipala-Ekwamu, believes that the initiative would  help universities to play an active role in reducing  knowledge and skills gaps within the sector. He was of the opinion that developing science leaders was to critical to shaping the pathways for sustainability, but also managing change for generations to come. According to him, African universities can benefit from the initiative through the increase in the pool of active researchers on the continent in the domain of climate change. TSARA is also expected to advance international initiatives, including the EU-AU Research and Innovation Partnership, EU-AU Plant Protein Initiative, Great Green Wall Accelerator, PREZODE (Prevention of Zoonotic Disease Emergence) and the ‘4 per 1000’ initiative (Soils for Food Security and Climate).. The institutions involved are the University of Pretoria, the University of the Western Cape and Agricultural Research Council in South Africa; the University of Abomey-Calavi in Benin; the Institute of Environment and Agricultural Research of Burkina Faso; the University of Yaoundé and Institute of Agricultural Research for Development in Cameroon; the National Polytechnic Institute Félix Houphouët Boigny in Côte d’Ivoire; the Agricultural Research Center in Egypt; the International Centre of Insect Physiology and Ecology in Kenya; the University of Antananarivo and the National Center for Applied Research on Rural Development in Madagascar; the Institute of Rural Economy in Mali; the National School of Agriculture of Meknes in Morocco; the University of Eduardo Mondlane in Mozambique; the Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute and Cheikh Anta Diop University in Senegal; the University of Carthage; the University of Tunis-La Manouba and the Agricultural Research and Higher Education Institution in Tunisia; as well as the University of Zimbabwe. Also, the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) launched a new Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Wageningen University and Research (WUR) in the Netherlands to develop and share knowledge and harness science, technologies and innovation for transforming agrifood systems. The two institutions have strengthened the partnership through development of a new MoU, signed last December.   Strengthening the food system     Ex-Adamawa Gov Nyako commissions solar-powered dairy factory     Transforming cassava farming   “This dynamic cooperation offers a unique opportunity to leverage our collective comparative advantages, and accelerate our joint efforts towards the achievement of the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals),” FAO Director-General QU Dongyu said at the event. “WUR, with its broad multilateral focus, looks forward to joining FAO on a concerted and inclusive interface where scientific understanding can be verified and shared before translation into policies, legislation and public outreach to all stakeholders,” said President, Wageningen University and Research Executive Board, Prof. Louise O. Fresco. The new agreement sets out eight areas for technical cooperation:  improved agrifood economics; sustainable animal production and health; impacts of climate change, biodiversity, and environment; sustainable fisheries and aquaculture; improved food security and nutrition; strengthened agrifood systems and food safety; sustainable forestry; and partnership enhancement.The MoU comes as FAO is engaged in developing its first-ever Science and Innovation Strategy. The strategy will cover all sectors and areas of agrifood systems, including crop, livestock, forestry, fisheries, and aquaculture – from natural resource management to production, consumption, and food loss and waste. “FAO must strengthen its position as a source of reliable scientific information and a neutral platform at the heart of important debate. “Engaging on issues that are contentious and have presented communication challenges is, therefore, imperative,” said FAO Chief Scientist Ismahane Elouafi. This year, Morocco’s Mohammed VI Polytechnic University (UM6P) organised the 12th Arbois Round Tables, which featured multidisciplinary scientific conferences on the strategic, economic, environmental, and health related issues of food security. The two-day event focused on food insecurity as a main issue that holds many nations from achieving sustainable development. Several international panelists debated over food production, the impact of global warming on agriculture, water, and renewable energies, as well as available agricultural techniques that allow healthier nutrition. Themed “Feeding the world: the challenges and the limits,” the renowned experts used the first day of the event to highlight the latest scientific advances in their respective fields, to promote innovation and scientific research as means to ensure sustainable agriculture. In his opening speech, UM6P President Hicham El Habti stressed that the global economy is experiencing a surge in the prices of basic food products, with their production being a major challenge to meet the needs of the growing global population. “Africa’s sustainable agriculture features among the central elements of the UM6P research and innovation system,” El Habti noted. He added that UM6P has created laboratories, developed agritech platforms in Morocco, and supported several agricultural startups to strengthen the agricultural ecosystem.