Gunmen have ambushed a police patrol team, killing three and injuring another. The policemen were said to be responding to a distress call when they fell into the ambush. The Nation learnt that the incident occured around 4am in the early hours of yesterday in Okpanam near Asaba. A source said the gunmen carted away two AK47 rifles belonging to the operatives identified as ASP Eke Francis, Inspector Joshua Akengbo and Corporal Perekedo Unene. The injured officer, according to the source, is ASP Bassey Wisdom. It was learnt the gunmen were led by an Okpanam indigene. Police spokesman Bright Edafe confirmed the incident. Also, a female inspector of police, Efe George, has been stabbed to death in Benin City.   Buhari celebrates Amusan, Brume over World Athletics feats     FCT taskforce begins massive demolition of…     Property destroyed as fire razes two-storey in Onitsha   The incident reportedly occurred at about 10am on July 21 in Uselu area of the city. The widowed Inspector, who hailed from Olomu Community in Ughelli South local government area of Delta State, and lived with her two children in an apartment inside Ogida Police Barracks. She was said to be alone inside her lover’s room when her assailants stabbed her many times with a knife, leaving her to bleed to death. Police spokesman Chidi Nwabuzor, who confirmed the report, said the prime suspect, Collins Anthony, has been arrested and efforts were ongoing to track down two other fleeing suspects. According to him, “Preliminary investigation by Okhoro Police divisional headquarters, Benin City, revealed that on the 11th June 2022, the late policewoman, Inspector Efe George Ishiaka reported a case of assault against this same suspect, Collins Anthony, over the sharing of responsibility of sweeping, cleaning the kitchen and washing of the toilet. This led to the arrest of the suspect Collins Anthony. “After the arrest, their relationship never remained the same. Collins Anthony took it to heart and threatened to kill her. As a result of that threat, the late woman Inspector Efe George Ishiaka went back to Okhoro to inform the police. “Collins Anthony was invited, cautioned and made to write an undertaken that he will never have anything to do with or kill the late woman Inspector. Unfortunately, on that fateful day, Collins Anthony and his cohorts went and killed the woman,” Nwabuzor said. The late police officer’s lover, Patrick Ishiaka, a security personnel with a commercial bank, expressed sadness over the incident. He said she called him at about 10:18 am and informed him that his co-tenant, Collins Anthony, led two other people to attack her inside the room.