To complement the government’s efforts in the power and energy sector, an indigenous oil and gas firm, Obodofei Integrated Services Limited, has partnered an international construction engineering company, Global Process Systems (GPS), to construct and operate a gas processing plant in Bayelsa State. In a statement released after the recent signing of a Non-Disclosure Agreement between Obodofei and GPS, the Executive Director, Obodofei, Dr. Steven Bassey, said the project would bring power into the community and provide job opportunities to the teeming youth. He noted that it had become imperative for indigenous firms to contribute to the national crude oil basket, saying that the action could only be achieved through collaborations between indigenous oil and gas producers and their international counterparts in the service sector. Bassey said the GPS, through its track record and high powered equipment, would provide the technical support, train indigenous workers while Obodofei would ensure the delivery of the BAY-Gas and LPG hub that would make natural gas available, accessible and affordable to the people of Bayelsa. He explained that BAY-Gas & LPG hub was an integrated gas processing and LPG facility that would be a 500 million-metric tonnes refilling plant intended to service 30 micro distribution centres to be fabricated and installed by the company.   NIMASA inaugurates maritime security strategy team     10 more states to benefit from World Bank’s $500m…     Nigeria’s foreign, domestic debts unsustainable, says…   Also, the Director of Project, Mr Ken Embeled, said the total cost of the project is N13.6billion. He added that the feasibility studies and economic analysis of setting up of the gas processing and LPG hub in Bayelsa was a viable venture that would conform to all Federal Government of Nigeria aspirations to deepening the domestic utilisation of liquefied petroleum gas in Nigeria as contained in the National Gas Policy (NGP). A delegation from the Global Process Systems (GPS), led by the Managing Director, Mr. Martin Brownhill, and Vice President, Business Development, Mr. Rajesh Shah, noted that they were impressed by the efforts made by Obodofei to begin such a massive project in Nigeria. Specifically, Martin noted that the GPS was keen about doing its due diligence to ensure that the project meets international best standards. He added that the GPS would provide support, training and advice needed to build and operate the proposed gas processing plant and distribution of gas turbines in Bayelsa.