Yes! They will be there again! The Super Falcons played up to their expectations and were in their best elements last night. They picked the Women’s World Cup ticket in the lone goal defeat of their close rivals, the Lionesses of Cameroon in the WAFCON quarter finals. With the victory, which their foremost backers – Amstel Malta Ultra – has hailed, they are still on course to achieve what is often termed ‘La Decimal’ in Spanish football – the winning of titles 10 times. In what was a repeat of the final match hosted by Cameroon in 2016, the Falcons yesterday showed great promise as they battled to a lone goal win against at the Stade Mohamed V in Casablanca, Morocco. Rashidat Ajibade’s header in the 55th minute gave Nigeria the World Cup ticket to be hosted in Australia and New Zealand next year.   Buhari: ‘Something to remember me by’     Choosing to act     Double jeopardy? Just as well!   The Brand Manager of the official Malt drink of the team, Maire Abia-Bassey, urged them that the ultimate title is the goal. “Main rivals, down, two more hurdles to go”, remarked Abia-Bassey while revelling in the major win by the team. It is even more thrilling to note that all Nigeria’s three women’s football teams are World Cup bound. The Under 20 team, Falconets will be battling for the 10th time at the U-20 World Cup which the 2022 edition will be holding in Costa Rica next month. The U-17 team, Flamingoes have also qualified for their category of the World Cup to be held in India in October this year. “The ladies’ achievements make us proud as backers of the teams and we are encouraged to continue to support them”, Abia-Bassey said. Amstel Malta Ultra, a premium drink with rich international heritage, had galvanised teeming football fans and consumers to stand behind the Super Falcons and also one of the longest standing corporate sponsors of the Female teams since February of 2018. Yesterday’s win now puts Super Falcons against Atlas Lionesses of Morocco and their vociferous crowd on Monday. The host had edged out Mares of Botswana 2-1 at the Prince Moulay Abdallah Stadium in Rabat