In line with its promise to empower Nigerian women, food brand Mamador produced by PZ Wilmar has launched a new communication titled ‘Explore your Flavour’ designed to inspire women in business and other facets of human endeavours. It said it is a wake-up call for women to experience life outside of routines and step into a world of endless possibilities was launched via a digital campaign. The brand released a television commercial with the intention of reaching every Nigerian woman and ushering her into an era of exploration and self-fulfillment. Speaking to the new communication and the commitment of the brand to inspiring Nigerian women, Head of marketing PZ Wilmar, Chioma Mbanugo stated that the idea behind the ‘Explore your flavours’ theme was borne out of a need to inspire women to pursue those forgotten passions and dreams that may have been pushed aside due to circumstantial coercions and life pressures.   Naira hits 620/$ at parallel market as FX demand surges     DMO: Nigeria transparent with public debt information     Dangote Cement, host communities sign CSR deal   “The average Nigerian woman is nurturing a potential talent or two which she refuses to explore due to circumstances or maybe societal pressure. Mamador is out to give her that boost of confidence she needs to remember those talents and explore her flavours outside of her usual life routines.” Over the years, Mamador has made strong contributions to Nigerian society, championing women’s causes, from its innovative virtual Mamador August Meeting, Corporate social initiatives that have been aimed at women at all levels and its celebration of the Nigerian heroics of Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games and Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Games. The digital launch featured empowering conversations leveraging notable personalities/influencers; veteran Nollywood Actor Ufuoma McDermott, Chef Ifeyinwa Mogekwu of Ify’s Kitchen and many others, share their stories and inspire/motivate women to explore the limitless sides of life and aim to achieve fulfillment in their chosen endeavours. Mamador is produced by PZ Wilmar, a joint venture between PZ Cussons and Wilmar International. Mamador products include cooking oil, seasoning cubes and spreads.