Former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, yesterday urged the Federal Government to ensure the successful implementation of ongoing efforts at achieving a digital economy in the country. He said the journey to digital prosperity lies in the efforts of governmental entities to initiate, ideate, implement, monitor and allocate the right resources in the execution of digital initiatives for Nigeria. Speaking in Lagos, yesterday  at the launch of ‘Nigeria: Drivers of Digital Prosperity,’ authored by Aaron Ukodie, a former Guardian staff, and the presidential flag bearer of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in next year’s general elections, who was represented by Partner at Africa Law Practice, Barr. Uyi Giwa-Osagie, said the country currently accounts for 82 per cent of Africa’s information communication technology (ICT) market, which he described as one of the fastest growing ICT hubs globally, with the sector being a major contributor to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). He said these significant milestones are a testament of his commitment and the visionary leadership of the government he served as the Vice President, “wherein I was in charge of the country’s economic management team.” According to him, the evolution of the country’s ICT and telecoms industry, started with the GSM, which was launched in August 2001 under “our administration, and has since revolutionised the face of ICT in Nigeria. In February 2002, I inaugurated a 22-member Telecommunications Sector Reform Implementation Committee, aimed at increasing access to phone services for Nigerians, primarily through the GSM, and further facilitated all necessary licensing for the GSM to come into effect in Nigeria. This is an achievement I am entirely proud of and further reinforces my credentials as a digitally inclined leader, aware of revolutions that need to take place for our country to move forward and reach her full potential.”   I’ll not let you down, Adeleke tells Timi of Ede     Lagos steps down new abortion guidelines     Kuje attack: Senate shocked by no CCTV, porous security   While commending the stakeholders in the sector that have played significant roles in the transitioning and growth of the sector into what it is today, the former VP said: “As we are all aware, the GSM has further expanded into the internet age, which has put Nigeria on a pedestal of innovation, technology, digital transformation, and inspiring our young people to do even more. I am truly happy with the prospects of what the future holds in this sector. “As a leader, I have seen first-hand the significant impact digital creates across the different sectors of our economy, and the endless opportunities that remain untapped.  On this continuous journey, I feel a responsibility to continue to support Nigeria and the young people of Nigeria, on its digitization agenda, and this forms a core part of my campaign promise and delivery to the nation in my current quest to be the next president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, come May 29, 2023.” He stressed the importance of a digital economy and urged collaboration. Earlier, MTN Chairman, Dr. Ernest Nduwke, also stressed the importance of a digital economy, which he described as highly essential if the country hopes to be competitive. Ndukwe who chaired the event, traced the current telecoms revolution in the country to the painstaking efforts of the Federal Government (led by former President Olusegun Obasanjo) at the time to ensure that Nigerians can communicate effectively. In his address, the Lagos State Commissioner for Science and Technology, Hakeem Fahm, commended the author of the book. He disclosed that the Lagos State government is keen on ensuring a smart city, stressing that the state is fast becoming a digitized state going by the several projects, including the state-wide fibre duct project, which ensure the deployment of 6,000km fibre optic cables. In his welcome speech, Ukodie said the 472-page text is an experiential chronicle of Nigeria’s sojourn through the backwaters of Information Technology (IT) and telecoms to the revolution, which inspired the current global reference of its institutions, corporate entities/brands and individual skill sets.