The Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), yesterday, called on policy makers to urgently take actions to avoid the economy slipping into a recession by the end of 2022. NACCIMA, while expressing grave concern about the state of the economy, particularly the declining national output, said the economy faces a likely recession by the end of 2022 unless the government implements a policy that places priority on improving domestic production. NACCIMA National President Ide J. C. Udeagbala gave the warning in Lagos, yesterday, at the association’s Third Quarter Press Briefing to review the state of the economy and NACCIMA’s contributions on key issues and policies for inclusive economic growth. Udeagbala, citing the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) report on national output, said the Nigerian economy grew by 3.11 per cent in the first quarter of 2022, a slight reduction from 3.98 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2021. He said while NACCIMA acknowledges the positive growth statistics published by the NBS for the second quarter 2022, the association’s concern was based on the possible false sense of security that this statistics may create. This, according to him, was because the second quarter of 2022 may not fully capture the supply and value chain disruptions brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic and  the Russia-Ukraine conflict. Udeagbala said the private sector was concerned that external shocks brought about by the Russia-Ukraine conflict had put immense pressure on the economy’s productive capacity. He said as a matter of fact, Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth rate has been dropping on a quarter-by-quarter basis since the 5.01 per cent growth recorded in the second quarter of 2021. “We, therefore, urge once again, the implementation of government policy that places priority on improving domestic production otherwise, face a likely state of economic recession by the end of 2022,” Udeagbala stated. A recession occurs upon two consecutive quarterly negative GDP growths. And Nigeria recorded a recession in 2016, followed by a second recession in 2020, forced by the COVID-19 pandemic, which caused a significant decline in oil revenues as global economic activities stalled for months. As further sign of the precarious state of the economy, the NACCIMA president said since its last press briefing in April 2022, inflation measured on Year-on-Year basis has grown from 17.17 per cent as at May 2022, to 18.6 per cent as at June 2022.   Adron Homes offers healthcare to communities     Dana Air laments short stay off the skies     Stakeholder seeks end to multiple taxation in ports   “As an economy, we have now surpassed the highest rate of inflation of 18.17 per cent in March 2021,” Udeagbala lamented. He, however, said while NACCIMA welcomes the decision of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to raise the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) from 13 per cent to 14 per cent, “we want to state that this is majorly an inflation management measure and does not address the root cause of the inflation.” Udeagbala traced the cause of Nigeria’s rising inflation on rising food prices brought about by a number of factors including the devaluation of the Naira and the cost of energy which has affected production and transportation. He also said at 33 per cent, Nigeria’s rising unemployment rate has become a major concern to members of the Organised Private Sector (OPS), considering its security implications. “NACCIMA remains committed to working with government at all levels, other private sector stakeholders to reduce unemployment by providing training and job opportunities,” Udeagbala said. The Association also raised the alarm over Nigeria’s rising public debt, describing her current levels of debt as “unsustainable.” NACCIMA said, for instance, that total foreign debt as at March 2022 stood at $40 billion, increasing from 38.4 $billion in December 2021; domestic debt also rose from N23 trillion to N25 trillion within the same period. “It is now very obvious that the current levels of debt are unsustainable, as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) projects that by 2026, all of Nigeria’s revenue will go to servicing debt. “As we consider that the national budget is heavily skewed towards recurrent expenditure that is largely unmet by the estimated government revenue, we counsel all levels of government to consider other sources of revenue such as leveraging public-private partnerships for tax credit spread over time,” Udeagbala said. Also speaking, the immediate past President of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Mrs. Toki Mabogunje, said for Nigeria to get out of the debt burden, there was a need for her to move away from debt to more of equity financing, and also create a national asset register. “When you open up a national asset register, it helps you know what your assets are, and you can begin to commercialize them,” Mabogunje said, adding that replacing existing debts with asset-linked securities will reduce debt cost and also ease the pressure of debt service on the budget. Other policy options put forward by NACCIMA to improve domestic production include fixing the domestic refineries to meet the nation’s energy needs; leveraging public-private partnerships for the development of key infrastructure that has remained a major challenge to private sector operators.