An ex-convict of United Kingdom (UK), Ahmed Soetan, was yesterday sentenced to one year imprisonment by an Ikeja Special Offences Court for defrauding Radisson Blu Hotel of N4.4 million. The convict had earlier spent 15 months in the UK prison for offences bordering on fraudulent bank card, motoring offences. Justice Mojisola Dada sentenced Soetan after he pleaded guilty to a one-count amended charge of obtaining by false pretence. The judge held that the prosecution proved the charge against him beyond reasonable doubt. Justice Dada, however, gave the convict an option of fine in the sum of N2 million and to make restitution in the sum of N4 million to Raddison Blu Hotel within four months. “All the items recovered from him is hereby forfeited to the Federal Government and must right an understatement never to go back to the same crime again,” Dada further ordered. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) had on May 30 arraigned the convict before the court on an amended one count charge of obtaining by false pretence.   ‘My abductors cut my long hair with machete, fearing it was…     Forty eight hours and more after PDP dared OBJ     When marriage isn’t sitcom…Funke Akindele’s second marriage…   The EFCC counsel, Mr Ahmed Yerima, said that the Radisson Blu Hotel Management wrote a petition against the defendant to the commission after he defrauded the hotel of the sum of N4.4 million sometime in December 2020. between December 15 and 16, 2020, made payments through credit cards and American Express in favour of the hotel and the payments were recalled by the unified payment system.   Yeima said based on the allegation against him, the convict was arrested and subsequently charged. “A search was conducted on him and nine different credit cards, bearing different names were recovered from him in which six out of the nine were American Express. “Two UK drivers’ licences were recovered from him at the point of arrest, all of which contained the same information, including the picture of the defendant and the only difference was the name. “The defendant said that the cards were given to him by one Jim Collins, whom he met in the UK and he was aware that the credit cards were not legally issued and that he did not know the owners of the card,” he stated. The prosecution further stated that investigation was extended to the National Crimes Agency (NCA) in the UK to confirm the authenticity of the cards, the driver’s licence and the criminal record of the defendant, if any existed.