National Co-ordinator of Nigeria Young Professionals For Tinubu (NYPT) 2O23, Alhaji Abdullahi Tanko Yakasai, has called on Nigerians to support Bola Ahmad Tinubu because the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate will rescue the country from insecurity and poverty if elected. Yakasai spoke in Kano when he gathered political stakeholders at NYPT office located at Yankaba, Nassarawa local government area to celebrate the victory of Tinubu as APC flag bearer and Kashim Shettima as running mate. He announced Tinubu as the grand patron of NYPT, calling on all to support the APC ticket “because the former Lagos Governor will end the poverty, starvation and hunger in the country.” “We are gathered here for two reasons: To congratulate Sen. Bola Ahmad Tinubu and his running mate and to mobilise our party members on the need to go and obtain the Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs). “This is the only way one can assist in bringing about the necessary changes needed in the country.” Yakasai stated that failure to obtain PVCs would give room for other parties to have an edge over the APC with loss by the ruling party returning hardship in the land.   2023 shouldn’t be about religion – SDP…     ‘Tinubu/Shettima ticket best for Nigeria,…     Why I chose Idahosa as running mate – Kwankwaso   He said it beholves on the party’s loyalists in the North to vote for Tinubu even if not for anything but for the fact that he was instrumental in bringing President Muhammadu Buhari to power. Elder statesman Alhaji Hamza Usman Darma described Tinubu as a good politician who has built the bridge between the North and South, politically. He said: “The Jagaban of Borgu has helped many Northerners to actualise their dreams politically apart from his kinsmen back home. For his love for Northerners, he had brought Atiku Abubakar and Nuhu Ribahdu into ACN and supported them to contest for the presidency . “And that was the highest level of maturity displayed by the man and I therefore see no reason why Northerners would not pay this man back with good votes for him to actualise his dream of becoming the next president of Nigeria.” Managing Director of Kano State Road Transport Authority (KAROTA) Baffa Babba Dan’agundi commended the organisers for their foresight and solidarity for Tinubu and his vice Shettima. He said “this group has done well, at least by telling our party loyalists to get ready and vote for personalities who will use their experiences as ex-governors of their states in tackling security challenges such as banditry, kidnapping and cattle rustling and as well revitalise the nation’s economy.”