Seedstars launched its second emerging market seed stage fund, Seedstars International Ventures II. The firm announced the first close of the fund with $20 million committed by notable investors including the International Finance Corporation (IFC), Visa Foundation, The Rockefeller Foundation, and Symbiotics. Since 2013, Seedstars has supported over 90 emerging market venture ecosystems, seeing how the founder talent pool has matured with 2,070 VC-backed startups in 2021 in their core markets versus just over 560 in 2017 (Source: GPCA). Seedstars will leverage this progress and invest in 100 pre-seed and seed stage companies across Asia, Africa, MENA, and LATAM in the next three years. Investments will be focused on companies building for the future of finance, commerce, health, work and education, with follow-on investments up to Series A. The predecessor fund invested in 81 companies in over 30 countries, with category-leading investments in all regions, Dastgyr (Pakistan, backers include Veon and SOSV), Foodics (MENA, include Sequoia and Prosus), MyRobin (Indonesia, backers include Accion Venture Lab and Antler), OlaClick (LATAM, backers include Meta and Google/Gradient) and Omnibiz (Nigeria, backers include Musha Ventures and LoftyInc Capital), among others. Charlie Graham-Brown, Seedstars Partner, comments, “I have no doubt about the abundance of talented founders or the market opportunities, but the challenges can’t be ignored. Our strategy innovates on so many levels to mitigate risk, be it through our country diversification, portfolio construction strategy, value creation platform, or the blended finance structure. We have a unique recipe, an incredible team, and backers in place to build on the success of the first fund and level the playing field for tech entrepreneurs around the world.”   Appeal Court seeks support over post- 2023 elections…     UPDATED: Buhari seeks Justice Ariwoola’s confirmation…     Interstate transporters begin 25 percent fare increase Aug…   Seedstars’ focus on supporting scalable technology companies in emerging markets, solving major societal challenges like access to finance, health, or education, and working closely with entrepreneurs to scale their businesses means that the impact thesis is embedded in the investment thesis. The fund also includes a blended finance component with a first-loss tranche that provides downside protection for investments in the lowest-income markets. Seedstars Partner Patricia Sosrodjojo comments, “Investing and impact don’t have to be mutually exclusive. Our strategy combines these two critical objectives in one and we believe that is what both founders and investors are searching for.” Venture capital flows in emerging markets have been growing at a 40% rate year-on-year, yet remain just 4% of global volumes. However, cash is only one of the ingredients for venture success and Seedstars distinguishes itself through its Value Creation Platform, built to help portfolio companies scale up rapidly. The primary component of the Value Creation Platform is the Growth Track, a 3-month mentor-led sprint, where portfolio companies are equipped with the tools and methodologies to run a professional growth team. The Growth Track is led by the fund’s Growth Entrepreneur in Residence, Jon Attwell (ex-Naspers/Prosus) with support from growth practitioners with experience in high-growth firms (e.g. Careem, SkyScanner). The Value Creation Platform also provides companies with access to a vast network of 1,300 mentors, support with fundraising, a group of peers, and various other benefits. “Seedstars is a true outlier and they have proved that ever since they invested in our pre-seed round”, Co-founder & CEO of Dastgyr Zohaib Ali shared, “On fundraising, they were the most well-connected investors and helped us close the region’s largest Series A. On growth, they manufactured with us an organic ordering system which made Dastgyr a cost-effective B2B marketplace.” Seedstars International Ventures is a seed-stage venture fund dedicated to emerging and frontier markets. The fund invests across Asia, Africa, CEE, MENA, and LATAM with a focus on backing ventures that are solving key societal challenges such as access to financial services, healthcare, education, or commerce. Seedstars International Ventures is part of the Seedstars Capital Fund Platform.