SIR: Africa is laced with some of the most obstinate conflicts, most of them constructed from differences in religious and ethnic identities. Religious and ethnic nationalism has led to conflicts about control of state power, unequal allocation of resources, citizenship issues, state collapse, economic decline and ethno-religious clashes. Nigeria has been pushed hither and thither by recurrent crises of regional or state illegitimacy, often impairing efforts at economic transformation, democratisation, national cohesion and stability. Our beloved country Nigeria is synonymous with deep divisions which cause major political issues to be vigorously and violently contested along the lines of intricate ethnic, religious and regional divisions. Issues that raise the most dust are those regarded essential for the existence and the validity of the state. Opposing and contending assemblages have a tendency to assume an exclusionary winner-take-all approach. Exactly one week ago, it was an amiable servant of God, Pastor Poju Oyemade, who became a victim of mob attack following a tweet; next was billionaire businessman ‘Femi Otedola merely for posting a photograph of himself and Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the ruling party APC in the social media space. Now, Reno Omokri has added to the charged situation with the statement – “Hold Peter Obi responsible if anything happens to me. According to him, Peter Obi, the Labour Party candidate has raised a “horde of intolerant and violent Obidients who just want to replace Buhari’s tyranny with theirs!”   Time for Nigerians to eschew bigotry     Buhari’s “enough is enough” statement to ASUU     Federal Polytechnic Ayede on a shaky start?   Breakdown, breakaway, civil strife, civil war, minority nervousness, and violent clashes, all of which would typically be regarded unusual in normal states are common occurrences in divided states. Here, we are certainly better and stronger in diversity than in miniature principalities that became of the former USSR; or the possibility of a new Biafra or Niger Delta of their dreams boiling over like South Sudan. Let me admonish that divisiveness, ethnocentrism and bigotry are not in good taste in an already polarized and insecure country. Politicians should be civil and respect other ethnic groups by talking issues instead of inflaming bitter sectionalism. Elections are not won on social media. It takes a lot of goodwill, planning and cohesiveness. Not mob actions, uncivil aggression or unwarranted assault on personalities. Let those involved sheathe their swords and let us join hands to rebuild our beloved country Nigeria. odusanyagold@gmail.com