The new 10 export processing terminals created by the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) to facilitate cargo export is a fulfilment of a dream of sorts.  The objective to boost the Federal Government’s revenue generation policy  and, ultimately, grow the economy. The NPA  Managing Director,  Mohammed Bello-Koko, who broke the news at the Zenith Bank International Trade Seminar on non-oil export, noted that three out of the terminals would come on stream soon.    What are non-oil exports? Non-oil exports include manufactured  and agricultural products, services, solid minerals like tin, coal and columbite. In Nigeria, growing exports, stakeholders said, especially non-oil products, such as cocoa beans, cashew nuts, rough wood, nitrogenous fertiliser, rubber, and cotton, has been a central part of the Federal Government’s policy for decades, but with little or no significant impact on job creation and the economy   Efforts of the banks on non-report A bank has played a key role in financing various sectors, including the shipping. The bank, maritime stakeholders admitted, is leveraging its vast experience in supporting trade businesses, especially in the Small andMedium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) and corporate business space to lend its expertise to drive discussions that will enable exporters to expand their export businesses and encourage new entrants into non-oil export industry. For instance, the FirstBank, the former President, Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANCLA), Prince Olayiwola Shittu said, has an Export Desk to support exporters. Also, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), through some banks, has created awareness for the endowment in each region; open exports’ opportunities in these areas, in collaboration with experts; drive grassroots’ conversations with exporters to convert them to opportunities; help overcome export challenges inherent in these regions; kindle an awareness of the export potential for AfCFTA prevalent in the regions; and serve as a workshop to address concerns, challenges and solutions in the export business of the country.   What maritime stakeholders said Stakeholders in the non-oil export sector agreed that it holds a lot of promise as a cash cow to boost the economy and provide jobs for the people. But regrettably, Shittu and others said, the sector, has suffered setbacks based on inconsistency in government policies.   Impact of govt policy “The Federal Government in its determination to drive growth in the non-oil sector has put in place certain policy frameworks such as the Export Expansion Grant (EEG) scheme, which operates under the legal context provided under the Export (Incentives and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1986. “The policy which is a fiscal policy instrument is implemented under the guidelines issued by the Federal Ministry of Finance and enforced by the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), the apex agency responsible for the administration of the policy, in conjunction with other key implementation agencies such as the CBN and Nigeria Customs. “The grant is given to exporters to cushion the impact of infrastructural disadvantages faced by Nexporters and make our exports competitive in the international market. “But the fund is only available to exporters who have repatriated the proceeds from their exports, which must be certified by the CBN,” Shittu said. The expert, however, faults the policy because it doesn’t take care of the port operators and investors, farmers, miners and other critical stakeholders in the non-noil export project.       What the NPA is ready to do: According to Bello-Koko, NPA is addressing bottlenecks affecting export through  proper synergy between vessels that came into the country as well as records of the ones that left the ports. “We are working with the government to ensure diversification of the economy and  encouraging non-oil exports. Also, not just about deploying the e-call-up system, we have licensed 10 export processing terminals. “The terminals are supposed to be at locations whereby one stock, process, package, certify, seal and send it to the port. But for it to succeed, we need other government agencies. We need to understand that the port is a maritime ecosystem not just for the NPA but other government agencies.” The NPA chief said further: “For the export processing terminals that were created, we expect the Nigeria Customs Service and Standards Organisation of Nigeria to have an export desk there for certification”. NPA, he said, had deployed a truck electronic call-up system to ease the movement of export cargoes into the port. Bello-Koko added that the NPA had created pregates where trucks would park before entering the port and barges were also introduced at a cost borne by the exporters, thereby, making export more expensive. He explained that the terminal would reduce the burden in future. He called for the introduction of a National Single Window to ease the movement of cargoes. “Automation is key to reducing congestion and will ensure quick processing of export and import documentations.  In the documentation, whether import or export, all starts with the consignee and the form is Form M and this has to do with port destination, loading and discharging. “So, there is a need to have one form that serves everybody and that is the National Single Window where all transactions will be done, even payment. “One bulk payment can be made and everybody is paid separately at the same time. This is obtainable in other neighbouring African countries and I believe we can do so here,” he said. In addition, the NPA boss said the authority has also created a dedicated lane going into the port to fasttrack the movement of export boxes and give them a movement time belt. “We understand the essence of export that is why we are working with the Nigerian Export Processing Council to integrate the dues with the new export processing terminals. We will also work with the exporters to see how this works in order to save a lot of time and reduce delays associated with export in Nigeria,” he added.     Bad roads affecting export The Managing Director, APM Terminals/WACT, Naved Zafar, blamed poor access roads to the port for the gridlock in the area. According to him, the port cannot be efficient if there is no proper inland connectivity to the port.   Oyo declares Monday work-free for Hijrah     Kanu’s lawyer accuses DSS of detaining staff since 2021     Tinubu, the candidate we are proud of   Pointing out the role of infrastructural deficit at the Apapa Port, Bello-Koko said the traffic had become heavier until recently when the government expanded the Apapa Port road. “At one point, we were having between 40,000 and 45,000 trucks into Apapa and Tin-Can Ports in a month, out of which about 15,000 trucks are for export. There must be a synergy between when the vessel comes within Nigeria’s shore, berths, offload the cargo and when it is inspected by Customs and other government agencies, and when it leaves the port. Any break-in that will create traffic,” he said.    Port of export The terminals will help exporters file the Electronic Export Information (EEI) in the Automated Export System (AES).       Various initiatives by the CBN Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele, said they had introduced various initiatives and interventions that would harness the opportunities in the non-oil sector to create wealth for the country. Emefiele added that the apex bank introduced rebate facilities to encourage exporters, and bridge gaps by providing funding for capital expenditure. “We have the N500 billion non-oil stimulation facilitation, Commercial Agricultural Scheme Act for agricultural commodities and many others,” he said. He advised Nigeria to look inwards for economic growth and development.     Potential of non-oil sector The non-oil export sector has deep agro-allied linkages made up of semi-processed and processed agricultural products such as cocoa, cashew, sesame seed, ginger, gum Arabic, shrimps, cotton and rubber. The country is also a major exporter of finished leather, which has direct linkage to the livestock growers. Expectedly, the export sector had helped to boost the incomes of over 10 million farmers in rural areas. A case is that during the global financial crisis, Nigeria’s non-oil sector not only soared high but also helped absorb the shock caused by sharp fall in oil revenues. Giving an insight into the benefit of the non-oil sector, Dr. Gbadebo Odudaru, in his book, titled: “Nigeria-U.S. Trade Relations in the Non-Oil Sector”, says the country has received good earnings from the non-oil sector, a fact, made manifest in the rising Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth. “The Central Bank of Nigeria Economic report for the third quarter of 2007, was estimated at 6.05 per cent compared with 5.73 per cent in the second quarter. The growth was driven by major agriculture activities in the non-oil sector such as yam, Irish and sweet potatoes, groundnuts and maize, which was estimated at 9.47 per cent.”    Investment profile of non-oil export According to export market analysts, the growth in non-oil exports rose from $1 billion in 2006 to $2.3 billion in 2010, a development, they attributed to the favourable policy matrix of government made possible during Okonjo-Iweala’s first term as finance minister. Other experts said the Bank of Industry’s (BoI) intervention in the sector might have also impacted positively.    Market diversification It’s interesting to observe how persistent efforts of exporting companies have led to the acceptance of their products in some of the highly quality conscious customers and markets.   Consider a few examples.       Export goods Nigerian products such as cocoa beans and butter, dried-split ginger, leather, woven sacks and technically specified rubber (TSR) are being exported to the US. Hibiscus flowers are also being exported to the United States. The NEPC indicates that the EU accounts for 56 per cent market share of Nigeria’s non-oil exports, followed by the regional ECOWAS with 11 per cent share.       Employment generation There are over 200 exporting firms in Nigeria. CBN publishes the list of top 100 export companies. According to experts, the direct employment in the non-oil export companies is estimated at about 200,000 while indirect employment in the agriculture sector which gains from the market linkages provided by the exporting companies is estimated at over 1o million. A large cashew processing plant set up in Kwara State employs 1500 people, mostly rural women. The cashew kernels are processed and packed, direct for shipment to developed countries such as the U.S. and Europe.       Cluster development A very positive fall out of the non-oil export expansion has been the emergence of export processing clusters.Challawa industrial estate in Kano has emerged as a major export cluster with modern tanneries situated in this zone.       Boosting foreign exchange earnings Boosting export earnings becomes even more pertinent today in view of weakening exchange rate of Naira and shrinking foreign exchange reserves. According to a senior official of the Federal Ministry of Transportation, who does not want his name in print but familiar with the past export trends, “a positive feature of the CBN policy has been the tendency on the part of exporters to operate through official channels which compliments CBN efforts to discourage the unofficial forex market in the country.”       Conclusion The economy has had to navigate a major crisis that started with the collapse of oil prices in 2014 and was worsened by the high level of insecurity in the country. The crisis of the past four years reaffirms the vulnerability of the Nigerian economy to oil related shocks. It underscores the need for Nigeria to look outward, diversifying its export base away from the volatile commodity if the country is to win its battles against poverty and insecurity. Oil accounts for 90 per cent or more of Nigeria’s merchandise exports.This heavy dependence of the economy on oil as the dominant source of foreign exchange is widely acknowledged. But the mechanisms through which oil price changes affect the economy and the measures (or lack of them) available to the  authorities to counter oil price declines are less commonly understood. We traced the impact of the recent price declines and considered what policy options were available to the Nigerian authorities to come up with counter measures. The vulnerability of the economy to oil price shocks has been known for years, and the case for diversification has been made many times. Therefore, the development of a robust non-oil export base is, in all likelihood, no longer a policy choice, it is a growth imperative. To grow and develop over the long term, the country needs very rapid growth in non-oil exports through the nation’s sea ports.