Missing the Europa League by a whisker last season has become a driving force for Super Eagles midfielder Joe Aribo. He looks forward to realising that dream again with Southampton one day, after putting pen to paper on a four-year deal at St Mary’s. Aribo played in all 17 of Rangers’ Europa League games last season, from the qualification play-off to the final in Seville, in which he scored the opener against Eintracht Frankfurt, only for the Germans to triumph on penalties. Also lifting the Scottish Premiership and Scottish Cup trophies in his time north of the border, the 25-year-old wants to be competing for honours once more on the south coast. “I’d say definitely pushing for Europe, that’s a big one,” he said. “We want to do well as a club together, going on cup runs, pushing for semi-finals and finals, and having prizes to play for. “It was a really nice feeling being out there, and the feeling of scoring in the final, but for me it’s all about pushing as far as we can go – pushing together as a team and getting the best that we can get together.   Dani Alves: Retirement not in my plans yet     MO FARAH: How I was trafficked to UK as a boy     ADAORA ELONU: WHY I CHOSE BASKETBALL AHEAD OF SOCCER   “It’s a good club, a good place to be, a family club. It’s exciting times here, I wanted to jump on board and get involved in it. I’m really excited to be involved in the journey and what’s to come for the club.” Known for his versatility, Aribo revealed exactly where he sees himself slotting into Ralph Hasenhüttl’s side. “He asked me where I prefer to play most. I told him just behind the striker in a right-forward position,” he added. “He said it’s really good that I said that to him and not another position, so we’ve had a lot of chats about it. It’s a nice feeling to know that the manager has high hopes for you.” The 25-year-old has spent the last three seasons at Ibrox, scoring 26 goals in 149 appearances following his 2019 move from Charlton Athletic. Aribo helped the Glasgow giants capture their first Scottish Premiership title in 10 years, also lifting the Scottish Cup, and was a runner-up in last season’s UEFA Europa League in which he scored in the final. Born in London, he represents Nigeria on the international scene, earning 20 caps to date and scoring in each of his first two appearances for the Super Eagles against Ukraine and Brazil in 2019. Southampton manager Ralph Hasenhüttl said: “Joe is a player with many qualities to his game, and we are very excited to welcome him to the squad in time for the pre-season trip to Austria.