The entertainment industry has an increasing number of celebrities with traditional titles. Perhaps, this is because some of them have done well as ambassadors of their States or essentially in light of the fact that the position helps to bring their communities to the spotlight. Fuji icon Wasiu Ayinde Marshall (KWAM 1) was named the Mayegun of Yoruba land on January 14, 2020. He is the first person to hold the title. The musician was installed by the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, in a ceremony at his Palace in Oyo town, in Oyo State. Oba Adeyemi installed KWAM 1 as part of activities marking his 49th year on the throne. D’Banj officially become a traditional title bearer in Igbo land on January 5, 2018. The singer was conferred the title of “Enyi Ka Nwanee Amuzi” in Amuzi Obowoland of Imo State. He received the title several years after referring to himself as “Igwe” (meaning King in Igbo). Tuface was honoured with the “Tafidan Kudendan of Kudendan” by the His Royal Highness Galadima of Kudendan Chiefdom. The title translates to “Ambassador of Peace”. Popular actress Genevieve Nnaji received the title of Eze Ada 1 of Amuzu Nweafor in her home town in Mbaise, Imo State.   Tinubu, Lawan, APC Govs, others rally Osun for Oyetola     Man allegedly kills brother with rat poison over land…     PDP zonal treasurer resigns over ‘unjust…   Actor and lawyer, Kanayo O. Kanayo bagged a chieftaincy title; ‘Ihe Mbaise Ji Ka Mba’, in his hometown of Mbaise, Imo state. The former Big Brother Naija housemate and winner of the 2020 season took his fans and followers on social media by surprise after sharing the news that he had bagged a title in Ogun state. The Onipokia of Ipokia, Oba Yisa Adesola Olaniyan, installed Laycon as the Akeweje of Ipokia kingdom in 2020. The actor and filmmaker had initially been appointed as the King-elect of Uba Land, Imobi Kingdom. However, he was confirmed as the king after a consultation was made with the Ifa oracle to confirm his status as the one true king. The actor bagged a traditional title Ikuku of Amumara town, Mbaise, Imo state. The actor shared the good news with his fans and followers in September 2020. Genevieve has starred in movies like Most Wanted, ije, last party, Ijele, mark of the beast, etc. Actress Chika Ike was given the title of Akwa Ugo 1 of Amoli Kingdom of Enugu State by the traditional ruler of Amoli kingdom for her contribution to the growth and development of Igbo culture. Chike Ike has starred in movies like paradise, mirror of beauty, to love a stranger, girl cot reloaded, etc. The Big Brother Naija season 6 winner was conferred the title of Ozopuru Ini Ego 1 of Udi Kingdom in Enugu State.