Singer Asa’s performance of her hit song ‘Fire on the Mountain’ with President Muhammadu Buhari in attendance as well as other top government officials has elicited reactions online. Asa, as a guest performer at the transitioning of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to Nigerian National Petroleum Limited Company, (NNPC LTD), entertained many dignitaries and other attendees with her 2007 hit track. Her performance has since continued to garner varying reactions online seeing the lyrics of the songs talks about a country in despair with the leaders showing no concern. Reacting to the indie pop artiste’s show at the critical event, social media users have hailed her courage for making exceptional use of the opportunity to address the leaders with the powerful lyrics of her song. ogegabriel said: “A very strong message.” n_pete01 wrote: “It takes more than just courage to do this….I love this.” i_am_engrjoe stated: “I love how the dude on the beat reversed his count to key her back in…..I love the part of the song that says ” One day the River will overflow, and there’ll be Nowhere for Us to go and we will run…run….wishing we had put out the Fire” only few Politicians will get the message. Thank You Asa baby for the Latent Stern Message.” graceamarabriggs said: “A massage to Mr President. There’s fire in Nigeria. Good performance my woman @ASA.”   Seven Nigerian celebrities with honorary doctorate degrees     Davido congratulates Adeleke for receiving certificate of…     Apostle Chibuzor withdraws Aguba’s marriage gifts, transfers…   iamifeoluwabunmi wrote: “Such a powerful message to the president and all other dignitaries at that gathering. God bless you @asaofficial.” siid_ful stated: “That was daring, courageous and I’ll say patriotic of @asaofficial. I wished more elites will tell them all to their faces the evil. The promote every damn day. God bless you Asa.” edwingodwinemeka said: “Truly there is fire on the mountain… ASHA used this golden opportunity which every reasonable person would use to pass a message to the dictator and his group of kleptomania NNPC board of directors,coupled with the impending doom that is seriously looming… If those who were seated understood the didactic lyrics of the song,they would have cautioned ASHA to change the song that is suitable to their retrogressive motives…. All is well. To well-meaning Nigerians we all truly know that there is fire on the mountain that almost appearing unquenchable. MARATHA!” godwinlouis85 wrote: “What a perfect song to sing for Buhari, please someone should help interprete to him, he has to hear this lyrics.” ayam_show stated: “Nice choice of song. A clear message to everyone there.” freelancer__on said: “Deep!!!! But trust this people in the hall to clap and give her a standing ovation sef without taking the massage.” gennyglad0424 wrote: “Song describes the present state of Nigeria, but who would interpret it to the perpetrators sitting here? Gathering of the wicked!” dreamynaturalle stated: “She was indirectly talking to Bubu only if he understood the message.”