The Osun State governor-elect, Senator Ademola Adeleke, has hailed President Muhammadu Buhari over his victory in the last Saturday, July 16, 2022 governorship election in the state. Adeleke, who contested the election on the platform of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) emerged the winner after the poll, having scored 403,371 votes. His closest challenger, incumbent Governor Gboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress (APC) polled 375,207 votes. Senator Adeleke, who featured on Channels’ Politics Today, said he could not have emerged the winner if President Buhari had not signed the new Electoral Act into law. With the act, he said, the president would be leaving a legacy that will deepen the electoral process in the country. He said the new Electoral Act, particularly the aspect that empowers electoral ad-hoc officials to transmit results electronically, saved the day. The governor-elect said it would be wrong of him not to acknowledge the president for that feat. He also extolled President Buhari for congratulating him on his victory, adding that Buhari had again shown that he is a father to all and a man that possesses the spirit of sportsmanship. Adeleke, who admitted that Buhari had a hand in his emergence said: “I felt good when I read the congratulatory message from President Muhammadu Buhari because this is good for our country; certainly, democracy is at play. “The new Electoral Act signed by President Buhari saved the day because it didn’t create room for rigging. I have to give him credit for that. With that, I can say the president has a hand in my emergence.” He said though he did not personally have any chart with the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, he nevertheless admitted that it was possible that the rift between Oyetola and the minister might have boosted his chances. He added: “I didn’t work with Aregbesola, but I know that his associates joined our party. I also know that a lot of his associates followed suit. But, I didn’t talk to Aregbesola directly. I will not also know whether Aregbesola gave them backing. I was happy when the fight between Aregbesola and Oyetola began. This is because both of them teamed up to rob me of my mandate in 2018.”   Senate passes Electricity Bill     Seven Nigerian celebrities with honorary doctorate degrees     COEASU extends strike by three weeks   Adeleke, who acknowledged the role his siblings, family members and other political leaders played in his emergence, went emotional when he was asked how he felt being the second Adeleke to emerge as the governor of the state. He could not hold back tears while talking about his late brother, Senator Isiaka Adeleke. He said: “I feel good that I emerged as the second Adeleke to govern Osun State. This hasn’t happened in this clime before. I think God is just delighted to favour him and his family, perhaps for the good works we have been doing for our people. “My late brother died for this cause. He wanted to be the governor to deliver the people from slavery and poverty. But he died. I remember him because he trained and did so much for me. That is why I dedicate this victory to him. “My family members supported me big time. They gave me a lot of money and moral support. I am the last born but I can tell you that we are so close. I wish all families can be like that.” Adeleke said he is not scared of the huge indebtedness of the state. He has pledged to boost the state’s internally generated revenue (IGR), provide infrastructure, enhance education and work out how to settle arrears of workers and pensioners. He added: “I am not satisfied with the state of education in the state and I have to improve on that. I will look at the infrastructure and environment of learning. I will renovate the existing schools and equip them. I will invest in education. I will give incentives to the teachers, apart from their salary. “I will improve on the electricity, though it might not be 24 hours for now. I will ensure the electricity is constant and stable. To boost the IGR, we will invest in agriculture; we have fertile land in Osun State. I will bring in investors to help us in this regard. “I will block leakages in our finances. We will employ direct labour to fix many of our waning infrastructures. Where necessary and possible, we will restructure our loans. If I must borrow, I will prefer grants that will be used for long-term projects. I will use some of my security votes to service some of our debts.” On security, he said: “I will deploy community policing. This is done even in the developed clime. It is done in America under the codename Neighborhood Watch. I’ll liaise with the traditional rulers to make it work.” The governor-elect also pledged to fortify the police, the Amotekun corps and local vigilantes. Adeleke, who said he has forgiven all those that offended him, also promised to make Osun an entertainment hub for Africa and beyond. His words: “I will make Osun State an entertainment hub. Imagine the benefits that will come to Osun if artists like Davido and others organize concerts in Osun?” He added that such development will impact Osun State positively in every way.