A Nationwide protest by Labour over the protracted strike by university lecturers is looming. Labour has directed its state councils to mobilise for a two-day solidarity protest on July 26 and 27 against the continued closure of public universities. The Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) sent the notice to chairpersons and secretaries of its state councils in a July 15 circular signed by President Ayuba Wabba and General Secretary Emmanuel Ugboaja. Labour said the protest is aimed at pressurising the Federal Government to conclude negotiations with the unions and ensure the resumption of academic activities in public varsities. Also yesterday, a former Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) president and chairman of the Body of Benchers, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN), said the lingering strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) should be considered a national emergency. He believes everything must be done to end it. The Labour circular reads: “In line with the decision of the National Executive Council meeting of the NLC held on 30th of June 2022, we have scheduled the national days of protest to get our children back to school and support our unions in Nigerians public universities fighting for quality education. “You are requested to immediately convene the meetings of your SAC (state administrative council) to disseminate this information and to fully mobilise workers in the states for this very important protest for good governance.” The NLC faulted the Federal Government for rejecting the draft report of the Nimi-Briggs Committee. It said in statement yesterday: “The NLC is concerned about reports widely disseminated by the media both online and traditional positing that the Federal Government may have rejected its own Nimi-Briggs Committee on the premise of alleged disparity between the pay rise allocated to university teaching staff and the non-teaching staff. “First, we wish to posit that the purpose of setting up the Nimi Briggs Committee was to conform with the fundamental principles of the rights of trade unions to collective bargaining as guaranteed by ILO Convention Number 98 which Nigeria has ratified. “Second, we wish to point out that one of the cardinal principles of collective bargaining is the principle of negotiation in good faith. “Elements of this principle include conducting genuine and constructive negotiations, making every effort to reach an agreement, avoiding unjustified delays and complying with the agreements when they are signed by the negotiating parties. “Since the Federal Government decided to set up the Nimi-briggs Committee to make recommendations on the review of the salaries of workers in Nigeria’s university, the negotiating unions and the NLC have been kept in the dark on the report of the committee. “It is, therefore, a shocker for us to read from the media snippets of a report of what is strictly the product of a negotiation between the Federal Government committee and the concerned trade unions. “Our first response is to aver that this development gravely betrays and undermines the principle of negotiation in good faith as it manifests crass disrespect by government for trade unions in Nigeria’s universities. “Second, the circumstances surrounding the work of the Nimi-Briggs Committee also portrays the disposition of government as mortally unserious unfortunately in such a grievous matter as the locking up of public universities for nearly five months.” Labour recalled that the 2009 Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Federal Government and the university union had long expired. It added: “Given the free-fall of the naira and its continuous devaluation, the need for the review of the 2009 Collective Bargaining Agreement is public knowledge. “As it stands today, the highest earning university professor and staff earns less than $800 as take-home pay. “This is indeed very ridiculous and is a major factor in the high rate of brain drain in our system making us unable to retain our best brains.” NLC noted that a meeting was convened by the Federal Government on May 12 at Labour’s instance to resolve the crisis. The Federal Government team, led by President Muhammadu Buhari Chief of Staff (CoS) Prof Ibrahim Gambari, had Secretary to the Government of the Federation Boss Mustapha and Labour and Employment Minister Chris Ngige. Labour recalled that leaders of the two major faiths in Nigeria: the Sultan of Sokoto Alhaji Abubakar Sa’ad and Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Chairman Dr. Olasupo Ayokunle and union leaders.   Kemi Nelson’s death shocking, says Adebule     On Nelson Mandela’s International Day     ASUU strike: who to blame   The NLC said: “Negotiations were held and the meeting was adjourned for three weeks to allow the Nimi-Briggs Committee to turn in their report and also to allow the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) to subject all the proposed payment platforms to integrity test, including Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS).” Labour, therefore, urged the Federal Government to immediately conclude the ongoing negotiation with trade unions in universities and to implement any Collective Bargaining Agreement reached. The Congress also urged the government to immediately pay the salaries of striking university workers which had been frozen on the premise of “no work-no pay” policy as recommended by the religious leaders. “We demand that the Federal Government meets these demands in line with the resolutions of the statutory organs of the congress. “All the decisions of the NEC have been activated accordingly with a circular to affiliates and state councils of NLC.”   Olanipekun seeks national emergency Olanipekun called on Nigerians to see the strike as a major national emergency requiring drastic measures to resolve. Speaking during  the 2022 National Public Service Lecture of the University of Ibadan Alumni Association, the senior advocate urged alumni associations to wake up in defence of their alma maters and not wait on the government. The theme of the lecture was: Building blocks for unbundling the critical problems plaguing education in Nigeria: A clarion call to Alumni associations to rebuild the collapsing portal through which they passed.” According to him, the government at all levels appears to have forgotten the educational institutions. He said: “If we placed premium emphasis on education, how much is ASUU requesting that we cannot give? “These lecturers are not just fighting for themselves, they are fighting for the future of public education in the country. “This is the time for all prominent Nigerians including alumni associations to fight for the education of our youth. “I foresee a future, and a near one for that matter, where the federal and state governments will privatise all the state-owned universities and tertiary institutions. “This is a prediction which should not meet anyone of us by surprise, otherwise, we may be echoing there was a university. “Our children are not happy with us, and we are also not happy with ourselves as parents. “Our educational system is crumbling; our universities and tertiary institutions are failing and failing, yet, government will not believe that we have sunk this low.” Decrying the government’s attitude to education, he said: “Do we want to keep on jesting, partying, wining, dining, dancing and celebrating while the portals that bred us are burning? “This is a time for action rather than rhetoric; a season of awakening rather than dozing, a time to build up rather than watching the collapsing walls.” UI Vice Chancellor, Prof. Kayode Adebowale, represented by his Deputy (Administration), Prof. Ezekiel Ayoola, noted that the current ASUU strike was one of the longest in the history of the public university system in Nigeria. He said all stakeholders seemed to be at a loss on the way out of the impasse.   Story By Frank Ikpefan, Abuja and Yinka Adeniran, Ibadan