A GROUP, United Kingdom, UK in Nigeria, has called on the Federal Government to reduce the cost of Diaspora remittance. The delegation led by Dr Bola Karimu had expressed concern over the cost of remittance during an audience with the Chairman of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa, yesterday, according to a statement. UK in Nigeria is Private Sector Development Adviser of the British High Commission in Abuja. The group, according to the statement signed by Mr. Gabriel Odu, NIDCOM Media, Public Relations and Protocols Unit, also called for partnership to have more inclusive remittance. Mrs Dabiri-Erewa said the Commission would do everything possible to eliminate all constraints to diaspora remittance. The statement reads in part: “Dr Bola Karimu-led delegation of UK in Nigeria  Private Sector Development Adviser of the British High Commission in Abuja has called on Nigerians in the Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) as a stakeholder to partner on more inclusive Diaspora Remittances.   ‘57% of electricity consumers on estimated…     70% of world’s 1.4 billion people living in extreme…     Lagos seeks partnerships for cooperative societies   “The group through Policy Advocacy is involved in economic development, good governance and more inclusive diaspora remittances by partnering with the Central Bank of Nigeria, (CBN). “Part of their concerns are reduced cost of sending remittances and the long end-to-end process of sending remittances. “Receiving the delegation, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, welcomed the partnership and assured them of her commitment towards eliminating all remittance constraints and ensuring smooth transfer of money from not just UK but all over the globe to Nigeria.’’     “Meanwhile, Abdulrahman Terab, Head of the Commission Technology Transfer and Innovation (TTI),  explained that remittances pass through various stages from initiation in the host country to receiving it back home with numerous options for the sender to choose a service they desire. “He further stated that cutting down the channels of sending remittances will not solve the problem; rather, cutting down the charges and opening the market for other stakeholders will be better. “Terab further said that it will allow recipients to get value at the market rates and ease remittance transactions, especially from the Middle East and Asian Countries.”