Shareholders of Unilever Nigeria Plc have approved the payment of a dividend per share of 50 kobo as cash dividend for the 2021 business year, its first dividend in two years. At the Annual General Meeting in Lagos, shareholders approved the audited the report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2021, with a commendation for the board and management over the return of the fast moving consumer goods company to profitability. The audited report showed that revenue from its continuing operations increased by 35 per cent to N70.5 billion in 2021 from N52.2 billion in 2020. Profit before tax from continuing operations stood at N1.9 billion compared with a loss of N4.5 billion in 2020. Profit after tax rose to N700 million as against a loss of N3.8 billion in 2020. Chairman, Unilever Nigeria Plc, Nnaemeka Achebe commended the shareholders for their trust and loyalty to the company, despite the challenging business environment in the last two years. He noted that despite the challenges faced by the company, its operational discipline on secondary sales, trade debt, overdue, and cash management drove the right kind of growth in 2021 as it continued to see growth coming back to the business.   Investors net N598b capital gains amid profit-taking     Cititrust Holdings lists shares of NASD OTC Exchange     NGX calls for long-term sustainable finance   He assured that the management would maintain its strategic approach to the company’s operations to further achieve profitability and long-term growth. Managing Director, Unilever Nigeria, Mr. Carl Cruz, said the considerable improvement in the 2021 financial statements was a direct outcome of the company’s management and staff’s renewed commitment to reaching new heights. “Unilever Nigeria Plc’s increased focus on business fundamentals such as reinvesting in the brands, enhancing secondary sales, and ensuring adequate liquidity while tightening controls on cost in 2020, resulted in better operational discipline and governance of the business in 2021. We prioritiSed serving the mainstream consumer, ensuring that we met their needs. “We saw topline growth of 35 per cent over last year and a consistent quarter-on-quarter average growth of 5.0 per cent. The bottom line grew by N7.4 billion from a loss of N4.0 billion in 2020. Our active management of cost inflation benefitted our profit and loss by 800 basis points improvement on gross margin. Cash managed properly such that we are declaring dividends after two years at 50 kobo per share. Cash generated in the year at N18.8 billion from N1.2 billion in 2020,” Cruz said. He assured that Unilever Nigeria would continue to monitor the business environment and respond appropriately to the challenges with a view to providing solutions through its brands and operations.