The lynching of Deborah Samuel, a student of the Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto for alleged blasphemy, presents a metaphor for all that is wrong with the Nigerian state. Additionally, it highlights the flaws in the secularity of the Nigerian state as expressly guaranteed by the constitution. Divergent opinions on the propriety of jungle justice as punishment for alleged blasphemy equally betray a simmering conflict between the rule of law and resort to self-help for perceived religious infractions. It is a typical case of conflict of two worlds as succinctly captured in St Augustine’s allegory of two cities – the city of God and the city of Man. The scene of Deborah’s heart-rending death characterized by stoning and being burnt to death even with the presence of a heavy detachment of security agencies conveys the unmistakable impression of two sets of laws governing this country –the secular and theocratic.  It presented a typical case of conflict between the state and religion; the corporeal and the ecclesiastical. Yet, this is a democracy guided by well-established laws. Deborah was accused by her classmates of posting a message in their class platform allegedly blasphemous of the Islamic faith. Sensing trouble as the matter raged, the school authorities promptly took her into protective custody at the security gate. Her father who rushed to the school before harm could be done gave a chilling account of what appeared high level collaboration or conspiracy as the police team that arrived was reluctant to ferry her away until they were overpowered by the surging crowd from the surrounding villages. They all watched helplessly as the poor student was stoned and clubbed to death in the most dehumanizing manner. They were there also when the irate mob set her body on fire only for two suspects to be arrested and detained by the police. Ironically, hell was let loose the following morning as misguided youths and children led by some adults took to the streets demanding the release of those detained in connection with Deborah’s murder. The demonstrators saw nothing wrong with the killing of Deborah to warrant the arrest, detention or bringing to book any person for that matter. They did not just stop at that. They went ahead to attack, destroy and desecrate some churches including, the Catholic diocese of Sokoto where fiery Catholic Bishop Matthew Hassan Kukah presides. The irate mob chanting religious slogans also attacked and destroyed the shops of non-indigene traders. There are salient issues from the tone and character of the Sokoto violent uprising. The first is the clear message that those who lynched Deborah committed no offence and the police had no reason either to detain or bring them to book. For the rioters and their collaborators, the killing of Deborah is justified because she did not respect the faith of others.  Ironically, the same set of people supposedly angered by irreverent comments about their faith, had the audacity to attack and desecrate other peoples places of worship without seeing anything wrong with their action.   ASUU and government: If truth be told     Foreign portfolio investments drop to seven-month low     Africa demands global financing reform   It did not occur to them that the faith and sensibilities of other religions should be respected in like manner. That is the uncanny irony thrown up by the Sokoto incident. And in it, lies the duplicity of jungle justice in avenging alleged irreverent conduct against religions either of Islam or Christianity. Who now avenges for the Christians for the destruction of their places of worship and desecration of their faith? During the last Easter celebrations, Sterling Bank with a Muslim Chief Executive Officer CEO, Abubakar Sulieman ran an advert: “Like Agege Bread He Rose”. This was in reference to the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ which is the central theme of the Christian faith. The comparison was not just reckless but insulting to the Christian faith. The bank apologized and the matter was rested. This is brought into focus to underscore the inherent danger the country would have been thrown into if every religion were to resort to jungle justice to avenge perceived infractions to their faith. Attacking and destroying the wares of innocent traders who have practically nothing to do with their touted grievances gave the protesters away as people nursing a hidden clannish agenda. Transferred aggression in matters of this nature is not uncommon in that part of the country.  In 2006, riots broke out in Borno and Katsina states when Muslims protested a cartoon in faraway Denmark considered offensive to their faith. Churches were destroyed as well as shops belonging to Igbo traders. Many also lost their lives in a riot whose motive has till date, remained inexplicable. More fundamentally, the government must rise to the challenge thrown up by the murder of Deborah. It is one murder, too many. In 2016, a 74-year old woman, Juliet Agbahiwe was lynched in a market in Kano for asking a Muslim neighbour praying in front of her shop to give way for her customer to access her. It remains unclear if any person was punished for that. All we got from the federal government were pontifications to the effect that people should respect the faith of others. The prevarication of the government and its inability to conclusively prosecute and punish all those who kill in the name of religion brought us to the current pass. Why would the Sokoto mob not demand the release of the suspects when the police could only arrest two out of the many that are trending in the social media? Had the police arrested many of those seen at the scene of the murder, it would have conveyed clear signal that our laws seriously frown at jungle justice for alleged acts of blasphemy. But they went about their job very reluctantly fuelling feelings that our justice system is favourably disposed to that manner of punishment. The federal government should get up from the fence; take steps to detonate the time bomb religious extremism and other unresolved national questions pose for our corporate existence. This country risks more lynching for alleged blasphemy if the raw teeth of the law are not brought against the murderers of Deborah. The choice is before us. But the consequences of inaction or ambivalence could be dire.