Lagos State First Lady, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu has impressed on residents of the state the need to take care of their mental health, stressing that it is a major determinant of every individual’s total wellbeing. She gave this charge at a public forum yesterday as part of the pre-launch of the Orunsii Wellcare Foundation. The Orunsii Wellcare Foundation, a not-for-profit organisation with the acronym, ‘MHADE in Lagos’ focuses on mental health awareness, destigmatisation and enlightenment programme across the state. According to Mrs. Sanwo-Olu who doubles as the patron of the Foundation, there is no health without mental health, hence every individual must take their mental health very seriously.   ‘Linking SIMs with NIN will curb cybercrime’     A case for consumer-friendly vegetable oil     How government can access unclaimed dividends – SEC DG   Pressed further, the First Lady, who was in the company of the wife of the Lagos State Deputy Governor, Mrs. Oluremi Hamzat, said Lagosians should give mental healthcare a priority in their scale of preference, noting that it is the way to go. In his welcome remarks, the Chairman of the Foundation, Prof. Adetokunbo Fabanwo said mental health is generally about every individual. “You don’t have to go mad on the streets before you have your mental health checked and accessed. It is something you must do Also speaking at the event, the keynote speaker, Dr. Maymunah Kadiri, who was represented by Suzanne Oreoluwa Adebayo in her presentation entitled: ‘Bullying and Self-Awareness,’ examined the various levels of bullying as well as its adverse effects on mental wellbeing, especially amongst youths. To address this ugly trend, she urged parents and guardians, including school owners and proprietors to help orient kids about bullying as well as helping victims to seek help early. The highpoint of the occasion was a novelty match played between Barcelona FC of Lagos and Young Strikers, which ended five nil against the Barcelona FC of Lagos.