Napoli has celebrated their prized Nigeria star Victor Osimhen who was adjudged the best U-23 this season in the Italian Serie A. Osimhen was named the Best Young Player of the 2021/22 Serie A season ahead of Juventus striker Dusan Vlahovic, Leao of AC Milan, and Sassuolo’s duo Gianluca Scamacca and Giacomo Raspadori despite netting fewer goals than the trio. Osimhen scored 14 goals with five assists in 26 Serie A appearances for Napoli this season. But Vlahovic, a former Fiorentina striker, scored 24 goals in 35 games for both Fiorentina and Juventus, while Scamacca scored 16 goals in 35 games for Sassuolo. “Victor Osimhen is the best Under 23 player of the 2021/22 Serie A season! Bravo Victor!” noted Napoli on their website. Also, Osimhen has described the award as a great milestone in his blossoming career. “For me, this is a great milestone! After spending a lot of time difficult, due to multiple injuries and all, I still held out against all odds but I won’t be able to do these things without the support of my family, friends, fans, and of course my teammates and coaches, I appreciate you sincerely.   Flying Eagles: Sports minister challenges NFF on domestic…     ITTF African Club Championships: Remo Stars dare Egypt’s…     Visa hitches alter Eagles’ list against Mexico, Ecuador   “This is also for the people who want to see me fail, you motivate me all to shame many of you. Hello and see you next season, God is the greatest, let’s move,” he added. Meanwhile, Italian champions AC Milan are reportedly linked with a shock move for Osimhen as a replacement for Zlatan Ibrahimovic. The Rossoneri claimed their first Serie A title in eleven years after a dominant 3-0 victory over Sassuolo. but could lose some of its attacking talents this summer including ageing Ibrahimovic as well as striker Rafael Leao who has been linked with a move out of the club. The Super Eagles star has been courted by top English sides, with Arsenal, Manchester United, and Newcastle the frontrunners for his signature. Napoli may hold out for a €110million fee, and with the kind of interest from the Premier League, a move to the business capital of Italy could be a tough ask.