The Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Lekan Balogun has distanced himself from the purported endorsement of one of the aspirants for the Oyo South Senatorial District on the platform of the PDP, Joseph Tegbe by his son, Aremo Femi Balogun. Olubadan said his choice and decision was solely private and and do not represent the interest of the Palace of the Aliiwo dynasty, saying the palace also endorsed serving Senator Kola Balogun who is seeking a reelection. Balogun won the election on the ticket of the Peoples Democratic Peoples(PDP) but decamped to the All Progressives Congress (APC) because Governor Seyi Makinde denied him second term ticket. In a statement by his media aide, Mr Oladele Ogunsola, the Olubadan said the palace frowns at the dragging of the exalted throne into such personal and unguarded visit and endorsement by a member of the family using the name of Olubadan. The statement reads in part “The purported visitation of Femi Balogun, son of Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Sen. Lekan Balogun to his school mate and a politician in the state, Mr. Olasunkanmi Tegbe has been described as a private and personal affair of Femi and has no blessings of the Olubadan palace.   2023: Atiku promises to recruit more personnel in security…     PDP primaries: We’ll support our governor – Delegates     Jubrin’s exit, no cause for alarm – group   “Femi, the Aremo Olubadan was alleged to have endorsed the Senatorial ambition of Tegbe during the visit, a position which is at variance with that of Aliiwo dynasty where the current Olubadan hails from. “The palace distances itself from the purported visit and endorsement of Tegbe by Femi and condemns such in view of the fact that the Aliiwo dynasty which today sits on Ibadan throne also has a son, who currently serves as Senator in the same Senatorial District in person of Senator Kola Balogun and still wishes to serve another term. “As much as nobody can prevent Femi, being an adult from holding a personal political view and democracy enjoins freedom of choice, the palace frowns at the dragging of the exalted throne into such personal and unguarded visit and endorsement by a member of the family using the name of Olubadan. “For the avoidance of doubt, the palace wishes to let the whole public know that Femi was not sent on such an errand and nobody in the palace would dare do such because Olubadan remains the father of all. From all intent and purposes, he was on his own and his purported message carries no blessings of the Olubadan palace.”