The campaign for 2023 general elections is gathering momentum in Imo State. Interested political heavyweights and lightweights who want to represent their respective senatorial districts have been engaging stakeholders at the party levels. Aspirants for various elective positions have started marketing themselves to their people through presentation of their credentials and manifestoes. They are also talking to stakeholders to convince on why they should represent them for elective positions. In Imo State, many of such political gladiators have lined up for the race to the Senate in 2023, polishing their images and updating their credentials for the race. Apart from some new entrants, a couple of the incumbents also want to go back in 2023. Talks about the need to represent them since they would be ranking members and possibly principal officers are now rife. It is pertinent in this brief to present some of those who are getting ready to seek for nominations from their various political parties to serve their respective senatorial districts in Imo State come 2023. He is the incumbent senator representing Imo East, otherwise known as Owerri zone in the red chamber. Onyewuchi, before his election into the senate in 2019, was a ranking member of the House of Representatives, having represented Owerri federal constituency for two terms (2011 and 2015).  He is armed with experience, effectiveness and above all, the only member that would have the opportunity to grab a principal position if he goes back. However, political observers say he has not shown enough achievements to justify his retention of the seat. He is running on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Wife of the Ondo State governor and aspirant for the Imo East Senatorial District seat at the National Assembly, Chief Mrs. Betty Anyanwu-Akeredolu possesses the wherewithal to successfully run the race. Akeredolu who is the only woman for the race in the whole of the three zones of Imo State, has the requisite education, mental and physical capacity as well as exposure to provide effective representation to her people. She is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Akeredolu focus is on the infrastructural deficit and haphazard planning of towns in the Imo East Senatorial District particularly the Emeabiam, Ihiagwa and Nekede axis who hosts two federal tertiary educational institutions namely Federal Polytechnic, Nekede and Federal University of Technology. Already she has kicked off by deploying her contact for the commencement of the reconstruction of the 10.5km Emeabiam-Eziobodo road being undertaken by the Nigerian Delta Development Commission, (NDDC) at the sum of N1.6billion. She has also embarked on intervention in many areas such as girl children and women empowerment (with special interest in widows) and creation of awareness, care and treatment of persons afflicted with breast cancer. The odd favours her to pick the APC ticket. When it comes to outspokenness and vibrancy, Hon. Uche Onyeagocha has the oratory power to stand above his peers contesting the position. A former member of the House of Representatives, the PDP chieftain has the record of being the first All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) legislator in the Green Chambers. Onyeagocha had contested several elective positions including governorship in the past until he was appointment as the Secretary to the State Government under the Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha’s short-lived administration. He has to brace up because many politicians have their eyes on that seat.   2023: Familiar faces square off in contest for Abia Senate…     2023: Newcomers battle old hands for senate seats in Cross…     See Warri and cry: Tale of Oil City’s fall from grace…   Another PDP aspirant, Chief Basil Maduka is relatively an unknown figure in Imo State politics. He could be described as a green horn. However, from the abridged curriculum vitae, Maduka seems to possess the requisite credentials that would give him an edge. He is a businessman and people believe he will attract business into politics with his contacts. Prince Alex Mbata otherwise called PAM is a game changer in Imo politics especially the Owerri zone. Initially he was rumoured to be warming up for governorship until he cleared the air that his mission in the state was to join hands with the State Governor, Senator Hope Uzodimma to bring the desired security and development to the state. Recently he had an empowerment programme where about 3000 indigent people of Owerri zone were given equipment to start up business through his PAM Humanitarian Foundation. He is force in the game. He is an APC member. Another APC aspirant, Jerry Chukwueke, is a renowned Lagos-based businessman who has at one time or the other contested the governorship of the State. He has also gun for the president in 2019 presidential election where he was a running mate to the APGA presidential candidate. His aspiration this time around to become the Senator for Owerri zone under the All Progressives Congress (APC), might create an upset for his opponents. But some people feel he may surrender before the battle ends as he is a mobile politician. Also a PDP chieftain, Onyerieri was a two term House of Representatives that represented Nwangele/ Nkwere/ Isu/Njaba federal constituency. He contested the 2019 senatorial election with incumbent Senator Rochas Okorocha, who he accused of forcing the INEC returning officer at gunpoint to announce the result in his favour. He claimed to have won that election. His experience stands him out. Hon. ThankGod Ezeani is a one-time member of the House of Representatives, he has experience of legislative job. He has the capacity to represent the zone in the Senate. Pundits believe he has what it takes to be an effective senator for his people. A former controller of customs as well as a ranking member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Jerry Alagboso remains a solid politician to beat. He has the contact, experience and financial muscle to work his way to the Senate. However, he has to work extra hard to beat other contenders as they are equally not pushovers. He is of the PDP. The choice is now for the party leaders and members to pick and present aspirants who would represent the parties at the election for the electorate to make their choices.