Digital marketing specialist, Tony Udomiaye’s  dream is to provide a platform for youths to engage in digital marketing, a sector where the demand for labour is high. His approach is based on maximising every individual’s potential through applied knowledge, best practices and innovative mindsets. Udomiaye has over 10 years’ experience in digital marketing. He leads a digital marketing agency, where he helps companies to solve their digital problems. According to Udomiaye, his journey has brought him opportunities beyond Nigeria, having been  doing business for Treepz, driving 67,000 downloads in two weeks, 500 referrals, and one million website impressions and 15,000 website visits. The digital marketer was a strong force at Crowdyvest, where a monthly download and new user sign up moved from 100 to 2000 monthly and revenue increased from N20 million- N80 million-N108 million in one month. Interestingly, Udomiaye led the digital analytics on social media platforms and monitored share of voice and sentiment analysis for All Progressive Congress (APC) governorship candidate Mr, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu in 2018, among other achievements. Sharing some of the opportunities a digital marketer can bring one’s way, Udomiaye explained that 93 per cent of online activities starts with a search engine and ensures the continued effectiveness of Search Engine Optimisation (SEO), as a superior marketing strategy while about 80 per cent of Americans make an online purchase at least once monthly.   Helping young entrepreneurs in avocado business     IBM, group partner     Participants to focus on insecurity, SMEs at Securex confab   “Anyone thinking about starting or leading a business needs to have a basic understanding of digital marketing to convert customers. There is a wide range of digital marketing jobs out there meaning there are a huge variety of career options and opportunities from video/audio production to interactive technology (such as artificial intelligence (AI)),Mobile marketing, SEO, Search engine marketing (SEM), Social media, E-commerce, Email marketing, Marketing automation content management and curation, Web development, Web design, copywriting and editing, Analytics and Business/marketing strategy. Speaking further, the digital analytic expert sa he has always dreamt of raising a younger generation of digital experts who, he believes, can do better given the training and tools to explore the space. In fulfilling his dream, he has created a training platform where he empowers thousands of youths across the continents. Explaining how many he has been able to train as a digital marketing coach, he stated: “Globally, I have trained and mentored over 1000 digital marketing young professionals. I recently got called the ‘ADPlist Power Marketing Mentor.’ This is given to professionals who have spent over 1000 hours mentoring and sharing knowledge on the adplist.org platform. “I help people develop practical and transferable marketing and data analysis skills required for a successful career in marketing, and build specialist knowledge of consumer behaviour, marketing management, as well as digital marketing tools, trends, strategy and more. “My training is designed for anyone who would like to increase their awareness and understanding of digital marketing. You don’t need any prior digital marketing knowledge, although any work experience will help contextualise and enhance your learning,” he added. On his thought on how Africa’s unemployment rate can be reduced if more youth take up this skill. Udomiaye explained. “One of the biggest advantages of digital marketing is that it has removed all sorts of geographical barriers. You can open your doors to foreign countries and offer your services to customers living miles away. You can market to them with just a click and create awareness among people who otherwise had no chance of knowing about your existence,’’ he said. More Global businesses have resolved to hire people to work for them remotely and a few times I have connected my mentees to international opportunities which they have secured and are currently living their dreams of not just becoming a Digital marketing professional but also working for an international brand.” Udomiaye said those who want to learn from him could reach him via his social media handles.