UEFA Champions League nights are always fun-filled with Heineken and Enugu fans would remember for a long time to come as they celebrated all night after Real Madrid edged Manchester City for the 2022 finale. Fans of both clubs, football lovers, and consumers of Heineken were treated to the best of entertainment by Heineken’s UEFA Champions League train at Villa Toscana Hotel in Enugu after they had toured different parts of the country. But Wednesday was totally a different night as Rodrygo’s late brace within a minute stretched the game into extra time after Riyad Mahrez had put Manchester City in front. The game was finally turned in favour of the Los Blancos as Karim Benzema netted a penalty in extra time to ensure the chase for an astonishing 14th UEFA Champions League title remains on course. On that dramatic night, it was the fans that went home with an early champions crown courtesy of Heineken. One of the country’s most sought-after afro-beat stars, Ruger crowned the night for the fans with an energetic live performance with fans rocking to his hit songs.   Makinde lauded over renovation of Olubadan stadium     Aruna’s TTC battles Dusseldorf in Bundesliga play-offs     FIFA U-20 Women’s World Cup: Falconets draws France, Canada,…   Alongside hype-man Shody who was the event’s host, DJ Chase the crowd controller, was also at its best as his turntables were busy all night with different tunes. Meanwhile, the bragging and bantering rights earned by Real Madrid fans after the final whistle did not stop Man City fans and consumers of Heineken from winning different Heineken merchandise as they answered questions like – who won the first corner kick, what team had the first free-kick, who received the first yellow card asked during the half time break and before the start of extra time. Alex, a Real Madrid fan who won a PlayStation pad, football boot, and jersey lauded the Heineken “Cheers to all fans” initiative, saying the memories of the event would last forever. The Heineken UEFA Champions League “Cheers to all fans” train will be making its final stop on May 28, 2022, when the finals of this season’s UEFA Champions League will be played between Liverpool and Real Madrid. Before Wednesday’s campaign in the Coal City, the magical Heineken Champions League train had visited a couple of cities; including, Asaba, Port Harcourt and Lagos in course of the season. Heineken has been a sponsor for the UEFA Champions League for over 27 years and has continued to thrill and bring football-loving consumers of the product together to enjoy live telecast of UEFA Champions League games every season.