On April 19, a Nigeria Air Force (NAF) trainer aircraft, an MFI-395 Super Mushshak, crashed in Kaduna, killing the two pilot-officers on board.  The cause of the crash is yet to be made public. While accidents remain a grim part of aviation, rigorous safety protocols, which have cut air crashes to the barest minimum, are also an integral part of the industry.  That generally high safety record has kept air travel as prime choice, especially for the long haul. But these last 14 months, the reverse appears to be evolving, in Nigeria’s military air space.  That trend is rather troubling, echoing the crisis in Nigeria’s civil aviation in 2005, which prompted rigorous civil aviation reforms.  Might that also be overdue for the operation of military aircraft?  That appears so, for the military’s recent air safety record is far from stellar. The crash of May 21, 2021, was by far the most tragic of them all.  A Beachcraft 350 military aircraft bearing Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, the ill-fated Chief of Army Staff and 11 other military top brass, crashed near the Kaduna International Airport, killing all on board. But that “season” of military air tragedies started with a crash of February 22, 2021.   In that crash, seven NAF personnel on board, officers and airmen, perished.  The plane, which took off in Abuja, was on a rescue mission to Minna in Niger State. It never got to its destination. On March 31, 2021, another Alpha-Jet aircraft vanished from the radar.  It was involved in the anti-terror war.  The two pilots on board were never found, though plane’s carcase would be found, months later, in Sambisa Forest in Borno State. On July 18, 2021, another Alpha-Jet crashed in Zamfara State after it was reportedly shot down by bandits.  But somewhat, its pilot, Ft-Lieut. Abayomi Dairo, managed to eject and make it to safety.   Fertilizer price and looming food crisis     ASUU: Confronting the lies and propaganda     Licence to loot?   These are threatening and frightening records, particularly of bandits developing the capacity to shoot down military aircraft. That led to outrage in the land, calling for strengthened air defence, out of reach to any rag-tag bandits; or even sophisticated ones. It would appear reassuring, however, that since that July 18, 2021 crash, there has been no more talk of bandits downing military aircraft on anti-terror sorties and strafing. The reason is not clear but it may be safe to assume that the military high command has bolstered the military’s air defence capability.  That would be good news, if true — and such should be deepened and consolidated. But the story is clearly not the same with routine, non-combatant crashes, as the latest one on April 19 that claimed the lives of two military pilots.  Pilots are not cheap to train.  So very galling is the idea that two of that rare species would perish, just like that, on routine training flights. The jets too don’t come cheap. They take time and money to procure. So, what could be wrong?  An aging fleet of aircraft?  Negligence on the repair and maintenance front?  Human error?  Weather problems?  What really is happening? Whatever it is, the military high command needs thorough introspection.  Such would start with a clinical probe of the current stage of things, with both personnel and materiel.  A honest and faithful result would deliver a clinical diagnosis, on which equally clinical solutions would be built. Such a process begins with rigorous investigations into the cause of all of these non-combatant crashes.  Even if, for security reasons, sensitive parts of such findings are not shared with the general public, the military owes itself being earnest on this one — first, for its own self pride; and for the tax payer that sustains its expensive operations. That way, it wouldn’t condemn itself to repeating avoidable mistakes. Besides, in this season of serious war against terror, a formidable Air Force holds the ace.  A spectacular Air Force puts the fear of God in terror criminals, even before any shot is fired.  Aside, it’s trite psychology: it’s paralysing trauma for the terror column when they realise that no matter how fearsomely armed they are, the Air Force boasts superior, nay supreme, arms to make mincemeat of whatever the terrorists can offer. Such formidability is never attained by the optics of military planes routinely dropping off the skies.  Which is why the military should sit up, sincerely probe these unfortunate crashes and ensure that a stop is put to them.  Anything less is not good enough.