The Anambra State government is set to partner with Elite Investors Global Limited to provide affordable accommodation and transportation in the state. The firm’s Group Managing Director, Prince Eze Ude, said the arrangement was designed to assist the administration to achieve its goals of transforming the state into ‘African Dubai’. Addressing reporters in Awka, Ude said the group was ready to provide over 15,000 housing units, with 5,000 houses in each of the three senatorial zones of the state. He said the group would also partner government in floating transportation scheme to ensure residents’ easy access to houses in the hinterlands. He said: “Governor Soludo during his campaign had promised to run a people-oriented administration where everyone will have input in what government is doing. “The major idea behind the project is to discourage people from resorting to ghetto living because they cannot afford to pay rent.   Baptists faults rotational presidency     NPC chair: we’ll deliver accurate census     ‘Off grid will address system collapse’   “That kind of environment also breeds criminals. For them to be dislodged, accommodation has to be provided first. “Also, Governor Charles Soludo promised to give investors an enabling environment and good platform, hence our confidence to invest our resources in the state because no government can do it alone without the private investors. “It is in building a low-cost housing scheme and providing accessible transportation that we can decongest the capital city. So far, we have visited Igbariam, Achalla and Umunze and the communities are willing to partner with us alongside the government to help develop those areas.” While listing other social amenities in the housing project/scheme to include road infrastructure, schools, hospitals, markets, among others, Ude was optimistic about a 10 per cent government subsidy to cushion the effects on direct beneficiaries. “We will also partner with other financial institutions and foreign firms to facilitate the achievement of the project in the next two years. “We want to revamp the Transport Company of Anambra State (TRACAS) like BRT in Lagos State to ease transportation for the masses. “This, however, will not stop other transporters from doing their businesses,” he noted.