The Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU) has warned the Federal Government against toying with the future of its citizens.   It said it would spell doom for the country. The National President of SSANU, Mohammed Ibrahim, said this in a May Day message to workers.  He called on the government to look into the demands of all university – based unions and take urgent steps to addressing them, so that the children can go back to school. The Joint Action Committee of the Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions (NASU) and SSANU last month extended their strike by a month.   Auto Draft     Insecurity: CAN declares three-day prayer     National Assembly workers issue strike notice   The unions said the extension was to give the government more time to address their demands. In the workers’ day message, Ibrahim urged the government to take urgent steps to address the myriad of challenges that led to the ongoing strike by the unions. He said: “This year’s Workers Day comes when Nigerian workers are passing through perilous and dangerous times. Nigerian workers and indeed members of our great union are confronted with diverse challenges such as rising spate of armed banditry, kidnappings, insurgency, economic hardship and worst of all the inability of the government to keep to agreements entered into with the university-based unions in 2009. “Our members have been denied payment of new minimum wage consequential adjustment arrears and backlog of earned allowances in addition to other violations of our rights and privileges.    “Our universities have been forced to shut down due to the insincerity of the government to keep to its promises. The standard of education continues to go down due to the insensitivity of government and the inability to provide conducive teaching, learning and work environment through lack of provisions of basic facilities that will make them compete favourably with their peers in other parts of the world.”