National leader of the All Progressive Congress (APC) and presidential aspirant, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has disclosed that governing the country is about brain work and not a wrestling competition. The former Lagos State Governor stated this Friday at the Governnent House, Lafia, while pleading with Nasarawa state delegates to vote for him during the May 30th presidential primaries of the party. According to him, “I’m not competing to be a WWE- WWE wrestling man. They say he is sick; he is not well. Am I sick? I’m not. When I apply for this job, I didn’t apply to Governor Abdullahi Sule to be a concrete mixer. I want to be President so that we can work together, with great brains, bring peace, prosperity, progress and development. It is a brain work, you have to be smart, brilliant and we have to rescue your children from hunger. We have to protect everybody, we have to use science and technology to detect evil doers and chase them out of Nigeria.   Over 10,000 electoral officers to handle Ekiti guber…     Saraki: I have capacity to unite Nigeria     Amaechi promises completion of railways to Gombe if elected…   “We can do it and we will do it. I can assure you. I want to beg you the delegates, if I have offended you before, please forgive me. Just elect me and the history of Nigeria will change. I know how to create wealth. I know how to make a nation rich because Lagos is a microcosm of Nigeria. “I met only 600m monthly Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) and today, it is 45bn, the 3rd largest economic development in Africa. Who else can brag about that in Nigeria? I have the bragging right,” Tinubu told delegates. The presidential hopeful further told the delegates to vote for someone who knows the road to prosperity and development Speaking earlier, APC chairman in the state, Dr. John Maaman, said the state has 254 delegates and the APC national leader should hold Governor Sule responsible if any of them did not vote for him. The event was attended by Governor Abdullahi Sule who hosted the presidential aspirant, former Governor Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, and his former deputy, Silas Agara among other stakeholders of the party in the state.