There were concerns about the health of the detained House of Representative member, Farah Dagogo, on Friday, when the police brought him to court on a stretcher. About four policemen were seen taking the lawmaker, who looked weak on a stretcher, to the state High Court sitting in Port Harcourt. Despite the order from the Federal High Court that Dagogo should be released on bail, it was gathered that the Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka, decided to rather produce him at the state High Court. The court remanded the lawmaker representing Degema Bonny Federal Constituency in Port Harcourt correctional center. Trial judge, Justice Chiwendu Nworgu, said he should be remanded following his inability to take his plea and adjourned the matter to May 16. Journalists were barred from covering the proceedings in the court. The prosecuting lawyer, Chidi Eke, said Dagogo lay down all through the proceeding and was unable to speak. He said: “But unfortunately, as they have been saying, that he (Dagogo) is sick so they brought him on stretchers. He did not answer and did not take plea because he was lying down all through the proceedings. At the end of the day what we did was to simply apply to the court that let him be remanded in the custody of the correctional center and then adjourned while he will be having access to medical treatment until he is fit enough to stand the trial.”   PDP’s decision on zoning sacrosanct, says Diri     Ebonyi PDP primary: 13 aspirants jostle for gubernatorial…     Confusion as Ngige drops ambition after Buhari’s valedictory…   Earlier lawyer to Dagogo Innocent Ekwu, faulted the police for not granting the orders of the Federal High Court to release Dagogo, describing them as enemies of democracy. He said: “This is tyranny, this Is an abuse of the law, this is arrogating to themselves authority that does not lie within them. We are calling on all relevant authorities in this country, especially the Inspector-General of Police to prevail on the Commissioner of Police in the state to release him immediately. The Media Assistant to Dagogo, Ibrahim Lawal, lamented that the Eboka forced the lawmaker to court despite his deteriorating health condition. He confirmed that officials of the state government and the police did not allow journalists to cover the proceedings. He said: “The High Court, where Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo was arraigned, had adjourned to May 16, 2022 only for the CP Friday Eboka to break all known laws in the country by bringing the matter forward before Justice Chiwendu Nwogu, today, May 13th. “Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo lawyers were not served neither were they aware of the change of date nor reason for change of date and as such were not available to defend him. This renewed judiciary onslaught by the Police Commissioner, Friday Eboka, was  pre-determined to disobey and make mockery of the Federal High Court order of May 12, 2022 that granted Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo bail but which was ignored and disobeyed by Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka.”