The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) said yesterday, that it has put all the necessary and required logistics in place that will make importers and clearing agents pay a unified and simplified charges based on the new Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) valuation system to be introduced by the service on Monday. Addressing stakeholders in Apapa Customs command, the NCS Controller of Valuation, Comptroller Anthony Udenze said the service would commence the implementation of the new VIN valuation system that would be acceptable globally, by next week. He noted that the new VIN Valuation system considered all options, including; accidented vehicles and salvage vehicles were all built-in, even as uniformity in values from all the area commands has also been achieved by the service The new VIN valuation system, Udenze revealed, would  boost trade facilitation programme of the Federal Government through the unification and simplification of values to be paid  by importers and clearing agents to the government through the service. His words: “Right now, we have cases where values given by various commands are different. There has been cry for unification of value from the valuation unit and the Service deemed it fit to listen to this cry. “Remember that two months ago we deployed this valuation and there was outcry. The Comptroller-General of Customs, Col. Hameed Ali (Rtd) in his magnanimity listened to the cry of stakeholders and set up a committee to review the process and the committee worked assiduously to come up with something that would be acceptable by all’’. We drew up officers from various Command’s valuation unit and today we can tell you that what we will present today will be acceptable globally.” Udenze also pointed out that members of the House of Representatives also reviewed the new VIN valuation system and approved it before the new plan for its implementation.   Manufacturers seek more investment in automotive sector     Health insurance now mandatory as Buhari signs new law     Wike and workers   Also, the Area Controller of Apapa Customs Command, Comptroller Malanta Yusuf described the VIN valiation policy as a testament that Customs will not stay static as the world evolves with automation. “The world is going digital. We cannot afford to stay behind. We have done a lot of checks and control on VIN. Automation of Customs process is very essential and valuation of vehicles is not out of place. Today, Yusuf said, agents can sit down in their bedroom and process clearance of their cargoes without any issue. “The new digital PAAR is another good development. Ngeria is not going to stay behind watching people take advantage of digital technology for business facilitation,” he said. The Area Controller, however, noted that if there is need for adjustment, the NCS would also willing to make the necessary adjustment on the VIN valuation if, when and where necessary. Speaking on behalf of freight agent, Acting President of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Dr Kayode Farinto, gave kudos to the service and stressed the need for clearing agents to comply. Farinto however, urged Customs to guarantee auto-release of vehicles, noting that auto-release is the right of agents and that the service should also do the needful so that port businesses operate smoothly. The ANCLA chief condemned the Customs approach of arbitrarily increasing of value  “as it is not professional but also encourages stakeholders to attempt to circumvent the process,” he said.