Terrorists, who attacked the Abuja-Kaduna AK9 train, killed nine and kidnapped over 60 passengers on March 28, have released another video showing eight of the 62 remaining victims. In the video, Sadiq, the son of Professor Ango Abdullahi, the Convener of Northern Elders Forum (NEF), Ango Abdullahi and a woman who claims to be Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s classmate, appealed to the government to grant the terrorists’ demand and rescue them from captivity. The new video, which shows eight victims, five men kneeling down and three women sitting on a blue trampoline, also shows one of the masked terrorists wielding an AK-47 rifle. The terrorists said the video was at the instance of the victims who begged to allow them to speak to the government. They said: “We are the thieves that captured these people in the train along the Abuja-Kaduna route. The people are appealing to us that they want to talk to the government. “So, we give them chance to talk to the Federal Government and it is left for you (government) to listen to them or abandon them.” Sadiq Ango Abdullahi begged for Federal Government intervention for their rescue, saying most of the 62 victims are sick. He said: “My name is Sadiq Ango Abdulllahi, one of the captives of the Abuja-Kaduna train attack. We are appealing to the Federal Government once again to come to our aid. “We have been here for 62 days. Most of us here are sick and we are not in good condition. Every day the situation gets deteriorating. We are appealing to the Federal to come to our aid before we start losing our lives.”   Five most educated Nigerian celebrities     Hoodlums kill commercial motorcyclist in Bayelsa     Sit-at-home grounds residents, commercial activities in Imo   Mrs Gladys Moren, who claims to be Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s classmate in the law school, said she is worried because she left a son, sickler, at home. Breaking down in tears, Mrs Gladys appealed particularly to the Vice President to come to their aid and ensure their rescue from the terrorists’ den. She said: “My name is Gladys Moren. I am appealing particularly to Professor Yemi Osinbajo who was my classmate 78/79 Law School. You are a grandfather and a father; come to our aid because we have been here for 62 days and I have a son who is a sickler; I don’t know his condition now. “I am pleading that the Federal Government and Rotimi Amaechi who is the Minister of Transportation to please come to our assistance. I am pleading. We are all sick. Right now I’m even sick too. But for my son who is a sickler, I don’t know his condition. I am appealing to the Federal Government,” she said. Another victim, Maryam Abubakar, said she is with the terrorists with her husband and four children, two of whom are currently sick. According to her: “My name is Maryam Abubakar, I am one of the captured passengers on the train with my husband and four children. We are appealing, our families and everyone that can help to please come to our aid. We have been here for 62 days in an unfavorable, inhabitable and unimaginable condition. We have been sick. In fact, two of my sons are currently sick and there is no medical supply.” She broke down in tears, saying, “we are appealing to the government to come to our aid.” The video ended as another male victim who identified himself as Emmanuel Soji was about to speak.