The run up to the 2023 election in Nigeria has been quite an intriguing one. The two biggest political parties, the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) and the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have had their conventions and elected those to steer their affairs for the next four years. The battle for the presidency has been fierce with a plethora of aspirants throwing their hats into the ring. Despite the fact that the APC put their nomination forms at a staggering one hundred million Naira, more than a dozen aspirants have picked up the forms and awaiting the party primaries in accordance with the electoral guidelines of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). However, the power to choose the candidates to fly any party’s flag during the elections is in the hands of very few party members known as the delegates. The challenge now is that the country needs the delegates to be patriotic enough to elect candidates that have the capacity and passion to deliver democracy dividends to the people of Nigeria from the wards to the presidency. Will the delegates be altruistic in choosing the candidates or will they pander to the parochial sentiments of ethnic, tribal or religious affiliations? The Roundtable Conversation spoke to Evelyn Onyilo, a veteran journalist, former president of Nigerian Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ) and publisher of Phenomenal People Magazine. We wanted to find out her views about the powers delegates wield in our political system because the powers are in their hands to select the candidate to contest in the general elections. To her, the way the delegates emerge in the Nigerian context gives too much power to a select few and it is unhealthy for democracy . The fact that don’t yet have a strong system in our democracy skews the contest against those with lower financial muscle. The old politicians are gaining from a system where money still plays a significant role.  Again, it does seem that the governors wield enormous powers and often decide how the delegates from their states would vote. They often decide who becomes a delegate instead of making it a fair contest.   To her, this is not good for our democracy. The finest tenets of democracy must be followed strictly for the people to benefit from the system.  There must not be a monopoly of power at any level. We are all aware that since the return of democracy in 1999, the same set of  politicians have been on the scene and continue to recycle themselves and their relevance in every election cycle. The same former this and that and serving members  in political parties continue to dictate the tune. The delegates system must change for us to have a more functional democracy she says. Doing the same thing all the time and expecting a different result is mere delusion. Until we change the system that empowers the governors excessively, we cannot make progress. We must deflate their enormous powers and create a better democratic process that gives voice to more people. The new system we are clamouring for is one where there will be development, where there would be equity and inclusiveness of women, youths and the people living with disabilities cannot happen as a miracle, we as a country must collectively work on it. Gender equality, good governance and accountability by the leaders across the all tiers of government can only happen when the democracy we practice is not a pseudo democracy where a class of people recycle themselves over and over with the same result of underdevelopment for the country. Evelyn believes that democracy thrives when equity becomes the norm. The idea of the men monopolizing leadership at all levels can never make our democracy thrive and usher in development. The women in politics especially at the legislative level are seriously outnumbered by men and as such she believes that women on their own must re-strategize and take their positions because the men can never cede power voluntarily. Women must have a new strategy which can empower more women who are ready and willing to work for development. The Nigerian women must be proactive enough to mobilize themselves, educate the rural women, mobilize across groups and communities and in a way work as a team that will be in a position to deliberately strategize and own their spaces in the political field. Women must learn to be deliberate and intentional just like the men. Strategies must change and we must look for people to support the women. Women must rally round their own by deliberately creating a pool where the most cerebrate and passionate can be sponsored into political parties to vies for positions. The women already in politics must also learn to be fully active and participate fully in party activities without waiting to be spoon-fed in anyway by the men. Power is taken and never surrendered. Being involved in party activities would empower more women because apathy cannot help growth. On a general note, women must also try to empower each other. They must work towards their goal even with all the socio-economic huddles. They must also know that you can be first lady but it is better to be governor or any other elective post. There must be a mental re-orientation that leadership is for all. Power does not belong to men. Women must be visionary and look beyond the psychological barriers. Women should also realize that not all women have the sense of seeing women as their first constituency and be careful to motivate those with passion for humanity.   2023: Subdued godfatherism and the burden of choices     NASS-rejected gender equity bills: APC convention and the…     Soludo: A speech and the chaos from two women   The Roundtable Conversation equally had a conversation with Ladi Bala, the current President of Nigerian Association of Women journalists (NAWOJ) who believes that the political field is still very tense even though a few women have broken into the political space. However, she believes that the traditional ‘Women Leader and deputy’ positions seem to be the ones women are often sure of more than other key party leadership positions. It is a big challenge but women, the civil society, political parties and the society generally must be willing to do serious advocacy for more inclusiveness. She believes the landscape is not yet very conducive for women but as they say, the journey of a thousand miles starts with a step. The women are more demanding now and ready to take up positions in the political space.  It is encouraging to see that women have not backed out as a result of lack of equity in the political parties. The women are still pushing forward and making some impact. Those  in politics are trying their best too in pushing the agenda. The fact that a Senator Olujimi and Hon. Nkiru Onyeajocha were able to push the gender equity bills in the National Assembly and although everything is not concluded yet, there has been a bit of progress. It is not easy for the women in politics because the socio-religious nuances still give some men the impression that leadership is a male preserve. Some men still carry the patriarchal sentiment that makes them see women being in politics as an aberration and they try their best to place huddles on the way.. Ladi believes that women in elective and appointive positions have been exemplary in their performance. The 35% affirmative action is yet to be implemented by the political parties even though Nigeria signed the 1995 Beijing declaration.  Most of the women that have had opportunity to serve have far out-performed the men for obvious reasons. Women are nurturers and sensitive to issues of development and growth. As one who comes from a section of the country with strict socio-religious issues like Adamawa in the Northern part of the country she has seen progress from women in politics. A  Senator Grace Bent made her mark for her senatorial district and has mentored many other women and blazed a trail no man has equaled. The memory of the times of a Senator Grace Bent in Adamawa still lingers years after her first tenure. Her oversight efforts in key sectors and track record has not been equaled . It therefore means that the capacity to lead has no gender. Every human is imbued with leadership qualities and so opportunity must be given to everyone. At some point one begins to assume that men seem scared of women because they understand the passion women come to work with and fear a replacement and loss of power but that cannot develop the nation.  Ideas rule the world and could come from any human. Generally, the few women that are in politics have proved to be strong and committed but more women are also needed. The idea that some houses of assembly do not have even one woman is a very discouraging idea in a twenty first century Nigeria. The legislature is a strong pillar of democracy due to the representative nature of candidates. So when a constituency has one or no woman to represent the people, the issues that concern development are left unattended to and we can see the poverty level across the country. Women need to be at table to take part in decisions that affect women and other vulnerable groups.  The huddles must be removed for women to thrive and contribute to development. The global bodies that advocate for inclusiveness and empowerment of women understand the value women bring. Nigerian political parties must go beyond tokenism for women as the primaries are being held. The idea of demanding loyalty from women in political parties but effectively denying them leadership is very undemocratic.  Nigeria will begin to develop when political parties make sure that there is a level playing field. But after all said and done, women must be decisive and ready to go the whole hog to integrate themselves into the political process and be ready to jump all the huddles in perseverance knowing that the future can birth a better political  system that can be a precursor for development. Both Evelyn and Ladi expect that the delegates would be patriotic enough to choose the best candidates for the jobs. The dialogue continues…