Conference of Nigeria Political Parties (CNPP) has for the second time called for the sack of incompetent and corrupt ministers in President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. It insisted that most of the cabinet members were corrupt. CNPP, in a statement yesterday by its Secretary General, Chief Willy Ezugwu, hailed Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor Godwin Emefiele for listening to the voice of the people by withdrawing his suit seeking to restrain the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) from stopping his presidential bid. The group said: “It’s time President Buhari overhauled his cabinet and injected fresh hands with new ideas into the cabinet, to redeem his image in the remaining one year of his administration. “By our assessments, at least, 80 per cent of President Buhari’s ministers and appointees have proved to be incompetent in the last seven years.   Wike dissolves Exco, sacks CoS, SA     ‘I will sign law establishing Fraud institute’     Navy marks 66th anniversary   “Worse still, many of the appointees swim in corruption that was unimaginable even in the years of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administrations. “President Buhari as a former head of state could not afford about N53 million presidential nomination forms seven years ago. The ease with which virtually all his ministers bought the exorbitant presidential and governorship forms of the All Progressives Congress (APC) should be the clearest signal that most of the presidential appointees have been corruptly enriching themselves. “For us, the recent corruption case involving the Accountant-General is one of the least among the appointees. If a financial gatekeeper like the Accountant-General of the Federation can be involved in such a monumental fraud, then President Buhari’s administration has a lot of image redemption activities to carry out before 2023. “This can be best achieved by the immediate replacement of most of the current ministers and appointees, who have obviously not delivered meaningful democratic dividends since their appointment.” Reacting to the news of the withdrawal of the suit filed against INEC and the AGF by Emefiele, the CNPP noted that “the development is a step in the right direction.” “We praise the CBN governor for being a good listener and respecter of public opinion,” the statement said.