Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar yesterday continued his fence-mending with those he defeated to clinch the ticket at Saturday’s convention. He was at the Abuja homes of Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike and former Senate President Bukola Saraki. The duo polled 237 and 70 votes respectively to trail Atiku’s 371 votes at the convention. Details of his discussion with Wike and Saraki were however not made public. Atiku had, in the company of party Chiarman, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu, visited Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal in his private residence in Abuja. Tambuwal withdrew from the presidential race at the convention ground and directed delegates wishing to cast their ballot for him, to do so for Atiku. But in a tweet on his official Twitter handle, Atiku said the visit was part of the rapprochement to bring all party stakeholders on board ahead of the presidential electioneering campaign.   Candidates hail party leaders, delegates     Council seeks better future for kids     Hajj: Lagos set to inoculate intending pilgrims   “In continuation of my commitment to bring everyone on board in ensuring that the @OfficialPDPNig stands as one united party, earlier today, I visited His Excellency Governor Nyseom Wike at his Abuja residence. This is a continuous process,” Atiku said. Atiku’s visits came on the heels of an assurance from the Chairman, PDP Board of Trustees (BoT), Senator Walid Jibrin, that the party would ensure the emergence of a credible running mate for Atiku from among the array of interested candidates from the South. In a statement yesterday, Jibrin described Atiku’s emergence as a sign of success for the PDP. Jibrin said: “The BoT will assist the party and our presidential candidate to come out with an acceptable vice presidential candidate from the southern part of Nigeria. “Atiku’s success at the recently concluded PDP primaries has opened a good way for all Nigerians come 2023. “We must also remember Atiku’s brilliant performance as vice president to Olusegun Obasanjo. He’s not a tribalist, he’s the best man for Nigeria’s President. “My advice as the PDP BoT chairman, is that we must come together as one entity and speak with one voice to make our party greater, not only in Nigeria but in Africa.”