In international politics, as with many aspects of human society, perception matters—but narratives matter even more. For more than two decades now, the West has successfully constructed a narrative about the threat posed by Islamic fundamentalism. It has relied on this narrative to justify the toppling of regimes, the destabilisation of regions, and in some instances, the violation of the very human rights it claims to be protecting. At the same time, it has paid scant attention to the threat of white supremacy that lurks within its borders. What that focus on Islamic fundamentalism has done is to shield attention from this virulent form of extremism that implicates the ‘liberators’ themselves. In 2017, the FBI reported that violence from white suprem­acists have caused more fatalities than any other category of domestic terror­ists since 2000, and that they continue to pose a “persist­ent threat of lethal viol­ence”. The violent murder of 10 black individuals on May 14, 2022 in Buffalo by a white supremacist is only the latest episode in the long history of racially motivated violence against blacks and other minority ethnic groups. Just like Dylan Roof, who sat amongst a congregation of black worshippers at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in South Carolina before killing nine of them, Gendron Payton, the Buffalo terrorist, wrote a manifesto detailing the motivations for his actions. In the manifesto posted online minutes before the attack, Payton advanced ideas about the “Great Replacement” of white Christians of European descent by Blacks, Jews, Muslims, Latinos. The idea of a great replacement has become a prominent subject matter amongst white nationalists in western societies.  In 2017, neo-Nazis marching in Charlottesville chanted “you will not replace us” and “Jews will not replace us”. Brenton Tarrant, the Christchurch terrorist who murdered 51 Muslims at the Al Noor mosque insisted in his manifesto that there is an ongoing attempt to ethnically cleanse the west of whites— so did Anders Breivik, who murdered 77 people in Oslo in 2011.  These ideas have been repeated in the mass shootings of Pittsburgh, California, and El Paso. White supremacists speak about the threats of a white genocide and these mass murders are supposedly a call for political action and if necessary, to initiate violent change.   Osun 2022: Between money politics and good governance     New thinking in public service and administration     Buhari must not bequeath today’s level of insecurity or…   In some conservative circles, the replacement theory has found political legitimacy. For instance, the New York Times has identified at least 400 instances where Fox news talk show host, Tucker Carlson, promoted tropes about a mass migration plan to change the demography of the United States and to replace dominant whites. A recent Yahoo News/YouGov poll shows that 6 out of every 10 Trump supporter believes the great replacement theory. Indeed, several republican elected officials, including members of the US congress have publicly advanced these claims. What is most concerning is the mainstreaming of a racist, extremist, violent, and excluding philosophy and the unwillingness to appropriately confront or problematise it. In an op-ed published in the Washington Post a day after the Buffalo incident, James Densley and Jillian Peterson, two professors of criminology, argued against the tendency to see such mass killings as hate crimes. According to them, “it’s easy to focus on the hateful ideology…but…hate and “terrorism” as they are commonly understood are not what drive most mass shooters”. They suggested that early childhood trauma provide better explanations. “if they fail to achieve what they have been socialised to believe is their destiny—material wealth, success, power, happiness—as they age, they reach an existential crisis point…when they no longer feel connected to the people and places around them, this becomes a suicidal crisis—except the thought of merely taking their own lives leaves them unfulfilled”. This is exactly the problem. The rationalisation of hate, of white rage, and white terrorism. Western societies have incorporated hate ideology into legitimate political discourse. They have given it a veneer of respectability, cloaked it in euphemistic language that shields attention from the political violence that such ideology instigates, but that also undergirds it.  Both authors have made decent humans out of mass murderers, recaptured their humanity by showing how they are victims of a society that has neglected, dismissed and ignored their presence. Perhaps, none of these should be surprising. The west has always had a white supremacy problem. The United States was from its inception a highly racialised society that institutionalised and legalised white supremacy at every turn. The mass murder of Native Americans was so widespread that by the late 19th century, the indigenous population had reduced from 15 million people to 238,000. White supremacy was at the heart of the evils of slavery—on board the ships that transported 12.5 million Africans and callously threw hundreds of thousands of them overboard. It was present during colonialism. Present in the complete disregard of black bodies that allowed the mass murder of 10 million Congolese by Belgian King, Leopold II, who turned the Congo Free State into his personal fiefdom. White supremacy sets the narrative about which violence is threatening and which can be rationalised. It differentiates between the extremism that necessitates a global war on terror and the one that can be explained as a product of childhood trauma or a ‘legitimate’ political conversation about mass migration.