Many entrepreneurs are exploring the plantain flour processing business. One of them is Bosun Solarin. In May 2017, she established Dasun Integrated Farms. Apart from plantain flour processing, the company supplies food items, including spices, honey and fish. Bosun acquired five acres of land. By the end of that year, she was growing plantain but expanded into other areas. Another entrepreneur making it from plantain flour is Mrs. Ire Akintunde-Johnson, a graduate of English and Literary Studies from the University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University, OAU). She ventured into food business following the compliments she got from her husband for her exemplary skills at cooking delicious dishes. Specifically,  she went into plantain flour business in 2018 because of the nutritional attributes of plantain.   Firm raises $4million for clean energy     IFC, Equity Group to support five SMEs      Airtel exemplar in ‘giving’, say Lagos, Ogun, Awosika   Her initial challenge was sourcing unripe plantain at a desired price. She was able to work around it by sourcing from remote plantations. The business has expanded since. What makes the difference is her resolve to produce undiluted plantain flour. A pillar in the industry is the Chief Executive, Noberto Group, Nobert Okafor. He spent Christmas and holidays with his grandmother who grew bananas at her compound in Nimo, Anambra State. She would give the produce to the young Okafor to sell. Today, he is a successful businessman running an empire which consists of construction, farms and renewable energy. He still processes plantain. In 2010, Okafor founded the first company in the group, Nobleman Industries and acquired 500 hectares in Cross River. He established a cocoa tree nursery and transplanted the trees onto 100 hectares. Plantain trees were interspersed between the cocoa trees to provide additional moisture during the dry season. Noberto Group also produces gluten-free flour from plantain. He started processing gluten-free flour from the plantain on his farm. Noberto Group worked hard to get its products onto the shelves of retailers, gaining traction steadily over time. Okafor believes there is a global market for plantain flour, with demand coming from African expatriates and consumers looking for a gluten-free option. He is working with the Nigerian Export Promotion Council on export opportunities.