Friday, April 22, 2022, was supposed to be a normal business day at ADWAJ Hotel and Suites in Oko-Oba, a Lagos suburb, but some dare-devil robbers turned it into a regrettable one for its lodgers, revellers, and workers. A seven-man robbery gang stormed the hotel in an unregistered Honda Pilot car at about 1.48 am and unleashed terror on workers, lodgers and other people unwinding at its bar and poolside. “Where is the manager? Where is your money?” the robbers reportedly shouted at the front desk officers before proceeding to drag lodgers out of their rooms and dispossessing them of their belongings. Armed with pistols, unwanted visitors, some of whom were said to have covered their faces with handkerchiefs and face masks, manhandled and tied their victims after dispossessing them of cash, phones, and jewellery. One of the victims was a lodger named Stephen Junior, who was said to have brought in a lady he allegedly met on social media and identified simply as Ariyo for a night of fun at an agreed fee. According to a police source, the lady, described as an online hooker, allegedly had a link with the robbers who arrived at the hotel moments after she joined Junior. In an exclusive footage of the robbery scenes obtained by our correspondent, the robbers pounced on two security men attached to the hotel, brutalised them and locked them up in a toilet inside the security post. They then rushed through the staircase to the floor and started invading the rooms to rob lodgers. Some members of the gang were also caught on camera attacking the reception area where they manhandled a receptionist and took her away. Some lodgers managed to escape from the scene. In another scene, the robbers dragged their victims and beat them before dispossessing them of their valuables. Interestingly, in the said visuals, the lady (Ariyo) is seen having a friendly conversation with the suspected leader of the robbery gang. She was neither touched nor harassed. As a matter of fact, she is seen exchanging some items with the gang leader, who stood with her as they continued to discuss for some time before she walked out of the scene while Junior and others were subsequently tied and robbed. The incident was, however, reported by the management of the hotel at the Abattoir Police Division in Oko-Oba, following which Junior was arrested and transferred to the Tracking Squad at the Lagos Police Command, Ikeja. The police also tracked Ariyo, picked her up at her home and detained her alongside Junior. A police source said that after series of investigation, it was decided that Junior was not complicit in the robbery act and would be released on bail while Ariyo would remain in their custody for thorough investigation after she was caught on closed-circuit television having a suspicious conversation with a member of the robbery gang. The case, however, took another dimension as the policemen handling the matter insisted that Junior must part with N300,000 to secure his bail. The hotel’s administrative manager, Kazeem Olatunji, said: “The police insisted on payment of N300,000 to secure Stephen Junior’s bail. His friends offered to pay N80,000 but the officers in charge of the case insisted on collecting N300,000. “We told the police that Mr. Stephen Junior is a businessman and a regular lodger in our hotel and that holding him for several weeks even after investigation has shown that he was not involved in the robbery is wrong. “As at Tuesday, we were told to write a letter asking that the case be withdrawn if we want him released on bail for free, but we declined because that would be the end of the case. “Moreover, we did not report Stephen Junior to the police. He was one of the lodgers robbed at the hotel. What we reported was a case of robbery, and since the lady suspected to be involved with the robbers happened to be the man’s guest, we could not stop the police from interrogating him as well. “It is, however, disheartening that since it has been established that he has no link with the robbery incident after investigation, the sum of N300,000 being demanded for his bail cannot be justified.” Recalling the incident, Olatunji, who was also a victim, said: “On April 22, 2022, seven men came into the hotel compound around 1.48 am in an unregistered Honda Pilot Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV). “They disguised as lodgers and entered the premises. Some of them covered their faces with handkerchiefs and facemasks while others did not.   Reactions over UK’s new visa policy ‘excluding’ Nigerian…      Petrol tanker falls, crushes girl in Rivers     Sanwo-Olu’s second term and MURIC’s Jaguda logic   “I was looking at our logbook for the day at lodgers’ bar when the robbers, armed with pistols, invaded the bar and reception and held the receptionists at gunpoint, demanding to see their manager. ”I ran with some of the lodgers at the bar, but some members of the gang who had split themselves and mounted some exit points blocked us and held us down. “They took our phones and money, about N250,000, and they also robbed the lodgers of their cash and phones. “In all, about 10 mobile phones were snatched from lodgers and staff. The robbers hacked into my bank account, withdrew N20,000 and purchased recharge cards three times.” Olatunji also corroborated the scenes captured by the secret camera at the hotel, which he claimed encouraged the management to report the incident to the police. He said: “We later saw in a CCTV footage that the lady who visited Stephen Junior had pleasant conversations with the robbers and that they exchanged some items. “She later walked out of the scene unharmed while the robbery operation lasted. She did not return to the hotel until around 7 am, long after the robbers had left. “The hotel was just three weeks old at the time of the robbery operation, and we reported the case at Abattoir from where it was transferred to the Tracking Squad of the Lagos Police Command in Ikeja where Stephen Junior is being held after he was picked up on April 25. “The lady identified as Ariyo, according to Stephen Junior, is a sex worker he met on a popular social media platform and booked for a night. The lady has since been arrested and she is also in police custody. “Curiously, while the police said the man has no hand in the robbery and promised to release him on bail, he is still being held in their custody because the sum of N300,000 being demanded for his bail has not been paid.” One of the victims, who spoke in confidence, said she was robbed of her mobile phone and jewellery. She said: “I was relaxing at the lodgers’ bar when the robbers stormed the hotel. They manhandled me and others and snatched my handset and jewellery. “They hacked into my bank account and used the money there to purchase recharge cards. I was traumatised because they held us at gunpoint while the operation lasted.” Another female lodger, who also did not want her name mentioned, said she was yet to overcome the trauma of the robbery. “I have been hearing of robbery, but this is the first time I will be robbed at gunpoint. The robbers snatched my phone and jewellery too and I am yet to overcome the trauma.” Contacted on Wednesday, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the Lagos State Command, Mr. Benjamin Hundeyin, promised to get back to our correspondent. However, in a WhatsApp message he sent to our correspondent on Thursday, Hundeyin said he was yet to get a response from the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) that was handling the case. “I am expecting feedback from the DPO. I did not forget,” he said.