“Taking cognizance of findings of research of past elections conducted from 1999 till 2019, it has been discovered that the president always emerges from either of the two most popular parties. It has been the norm in the 1999, 2003, 2007, 2011, 2015 and 2019 elections. It will be seemingly situated come 2023 (sic).” – John Ekundayo, Followership Challenge, The Nation, Sunday, 17th April 2022. The National Republican Convention (NRC) and Social Democratic Party (SDP) were the dominant parties in the Third Republic, overseen by the military junta headed by the maradonic and maverick General Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida (IBB). The year of establishment of the two parties was 1989. Initially, there were thirteen (13) parties that were formed by mingling and mixing of antecedents, ambitions, preferences, pedigree, camaraderie, ideology, policy and philosophy. The military junta headed by IBB, wanting to flex her muscle of a high-handed umpire, proscribed all the 13 parties, and by military fiat birthed two political parties – NRC and SDP. Hence, all politicians are to choose either of the duo if they were interested in partaking in the politics of that era. Aping the democratic systems of the United States of America (USA), the NRC was designed to be conservative in colour and content while the SDP was to be welfarist in nature. It was the intention of the Babangida administration to detribalize party formation thus ensuring and ensuing harmonization of people of diverse social, cultural and religious leanings and longings. How far did the IBB government succeed in this adventure? The seemingly subjective side of the concept was skewed to failure, ab initio! How? The presidential primaries conducted, without allegation of rancour or rigging by the two parties, were voided by the almighty military junta without any reasonable justification. It was the primaries that threw up Shehu Musa Yar Adua for the SDP and Adamu Ciroma, for the NRC. If the two parties were allowed to democratically evolve with regulated norms and ethos in place, there would not have been the June 12 saga happening in the first place! Should we throw out the baby with the bathwater? Personally, I believe there is something good in IBB’s approach of a two-party system. Follow me in this treatise. One Good Thing in IBB’s Policy Ab initio, looking at my writings, and discourses on national television (Channels TV, TVC and Arise), I have been a vitriolic critic of the maverick and maradonic maneuverings of Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida (IBB) especially his non – apologetic posture on the annulment of the best election in the history of Nigeria – June 12, 1983 election. However, looking in retrospection and rationally at our political scene from 1999 till 2019, spanning two decades, IBB seems to be right in initiating the two – party system; albeit his tinkering or interfering with the process, nonetheless undemocratic, was the Achilles’ heel. This columnist, writing under the theme: “The leadership question cum consensus conundrum” published in the Nation newspaper of Sunday, 17th April 2022, succinctly stated, inter alia: “Presently, there are eighteen (18) political parties in Nigeria. Taking cognizance of findings of research of past elections conducted from 1999 till 2019, it has been discovered that the president always emerges from either of the two most popular parties. It has been the norm in the 1999, 2003, 2007, 2011, 2015 and 2019 elections. It will be seemingly situated come 2023. In essence, the President of Nigeria, all things remaining the same from now till the time of the election early next year, will either emerge from the presidential candidate of APC or PDP (sic).” Thinking and tinkering along these lines, if the 2023 election is held as stipulated and scheduled by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the president of Nigeria come 29th May 2023 will either be the presidential candidate of APC or PDP. What is the import of this research postulation or projection taking cognizance of the socio – economic cum political context of Nigeria? It speaks volume!   2023 Presidency: Why Jonathan should not contest     Nigeria and the 2023 make or mar presidential election     Retrieving the Philosophy in the ‘Doctor of Philosophy…   Pinpointing Presidency 2023: Prying PDP and APC? Be you a student, public servant, professionals in the private sector, market men and women, traditional rulers, clergy, farmers, herders, business men and women in diverse areas of the economy, etc., with the on – going lecturers’ strike in our public universities, ebbing economy, inclement insecurity, pervading promiscuous political pandering, inclined indebtedness, etc., anyone not interested in who becomes Nigeria’s president come May 2023 is impervious to the present day realities within Nigeria’s context and could be reckoned with as docile, alienated (as defined by scholars in followership studies) or simply and squarely stated, politically dead! It is as grave and grievous as you read it here! There is no depicting or describing it mildly!! It is true that most enlightened and educated men, referred to as elites, are mostly illiterates politically and they are the fulcrum of our problem as they knowingly or unknowingly refused to participate in the electoral process. They do not make choice and participate in voting. They allow commoners such as artisans, market men and women, commercial drivers and riders (bus, taxi, maruwa and okada), etc. to choose who our president or governor or senator will be! Are the elites still exhibiting grandiloquence, in content and context, while for the umpteenth time depicting lackadaisical or laidback demeanour to politics and politicking? No more “siddon look!” It was the late elder statesman, former governor of old Oyo State and later Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Chief Bola Ige of blessed memory that popularized the cliché: “siddon look!”, meaning just sit on the fence and watch as spectators. In concluding this essay, it is imperative to drive home the point that Nigerians should be prying into the process put in place by the two political parties before the presidential primaries of the APC and PDP coming up later this month – it is at the door! It is remarkable and instructive to note the action of a Civil Society Organization (CSO) referred to as Concerned Nigeria Citizens this past Wednesday in Abuja. These active and courageous followers marched on the secretariats of both the APC and PDP with a letter appealing for the zoning of the parties’ presidential candidates to the southern part of Nigeria. It may be insinuated that they were sponsored by some group or scrupulous political actors from certain sections of Nigeria but it could not be gainsaid that they passed their feelings and feedback to the right quarters. It is democracy. Other groups and bodies could be more prying and poke – nose further into the preferences, policies, and processes in arriving at the election or choosing of the candidates in these two dominant parties. Why should concerned and functional followers fixate on just two parties – APC and PDP? Someone will want to argue that many are disillusioned about the duo and therefore will likely look elsewhere for their preferred candidate. This is true in a politically enlightened environment. Truth be told: Nigeria’s followers, even many reading this do not own voters’ card (Permanent Voters Card, (PVC)); those who have PVC might not move out of their houses on the day of the election as “if there is a lion on the street” and others, as it occurred in previous elections, will fail to vote on the election day due to subterrain premeditated political dribbling by unscrupulous politicians in cahoots with corrupt INEC officials who will delay the process and in the ensuing melee, will go home and refuse to come for voting thereafter. In research findings, it is mind – boggling the humongous numbers in 2015 and 2019 elections that were accredited but did not vote. INEC, come 2023, should up their game such that there should be immediate voting after accreditation of voters. Concluding this write up, this columnist, with the lens of empirical, rather than cognitive   research, methodology will want to infer that the outcome of the 2023 presidential election will not differ but defer to de facto trends from 1999 to 2019. Hence, reference will be made to the earlier submission quoting excerpts from an earlier article on the leadership question of Sunday, 27th April 2022: “It is therefore imperative for followers to be involved in the issues relating to the process, procedure and policy guiding who will emerge on the platforms of these two parties as the candidate of either of them will eventually lead this country. It is as sacrosanct as simply and succinctly stated in this piece!” Are we paying attention to the process of choosing or electing the candidates in these two parties; playing our part through commenting or critiquing the process; or we dey siddon look? The result will manifest after the elections of 2023. It is not too late, we should be involved through interfacing, interacting and investigating the political process.