The Movement for the Survival of Izon Ethnic Nationality (MOSIEND) has urged former President Goodluck Jonathan to accept the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential forms bought for him by a northern group. MOSIEND, which frowned at a statement claiming that Jonathan rejected the forms, said such act was hasty and did not bear the characteristics of the former President. The group in a statement signed yesterday in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, by its National Secretary, Amb. Amain Wiston Cottrell, said the initial reports that Jonathan had accepted to run on the APC platform brought a lot of excitement to many people across the country. MOSIEND, however,  observed that the accompanying statement by Jonathan’s aide killed the excitement, insisting that the document rejecting the forms was not fully authorised by Jonathan. The group said: “Unfortunately, the tempo of celebration was short lived as a counter story emerged stating that former President Jonathan had turned down the forms bought on his behalf.   CNPP demands sack of CBN Governor Emefiele     N100m form: PDP accuses APC of treasury looting     Sanwo-Olu: power should shift to South   “MOSIEND disagrees with the statement credited to one of the aides of the former President. First, it is unlike the former President. He is known to always think through any action before giving his position on a matter. So, the hasty statement didn’t emanate from the Jonathan we know. “Secondly, it is not wrong to have purchased a form on his behalf without recourse to him. Ninety per cent of the politicians, who had picked their interest forms, claimed that certain group purchased the form for them. As MOSIEND, we were also gathering funds as well to purchase the forms for him”. MOSIEND hailed the northern group for its courage to purchase the forms for the former President, saying it was a step in the right direction. He said the gesture was an indication that people earnestly desired the leadership style of Jonathan and wanted him back as their President. MOSIEND said: “Our brothers from the North deserve our thumbs-up. They have distinguished themselves as true patriots, who want the unity, stability and progress of Nigeria by all cost. “We are further embolden to entreat our father and leader to accept the forms and come out and contest. The call of the masses is a from God, we have said it at several forums , God is not done with Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan leadership of this country”.