Increasing cost of operations triggered by skyrocketing price of Jet A1 is pushing indigenous carriers to the edge. Efforts to rescue the airlines from imminent collapse by the government have not yielded the desired results. A raft of interventions canvassed by experts and stakeholders to alter the stakes, including a request for licence to import aviation fuel by local carriers, is yet to get regulatory approval. KELVIN OSA-OKUNBOR writes on the need for the government to come to the aid of the struggling carriers. These are not the best of times for players in the aviation sector as  recurring threats by indigenous carriers to shut operations whenever there is a spike in the price of Jet A 1, otherwise known as aviation fuel, is giving the government and citizens serious concern. The intrigues that played out last week over plans by indigenous carriers not to operate flights protest the skyrocketing price of aviation fuel, which moved from N190 per litre to the speculated N700 per litre in the last one year, has exposed the underbelly of the industry. Though operators backtracked on the threat following intervention from the Ministry of Aviation, the Presidency, House of Representatives and groups, vacillation from some of the operators on the resolve, experts said, spoke volumes of an industry that works against its interest. Last week’s action to protest an increase in the price of aviation fuel is not the first of such steps by indigenous carriers. The operators, acting under the aegis of Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), had on March 15, this year threatened to withdraw air services over increasing cost of Jet A1. Its President, Alhaji Abdulmunaf Yunusa- Sarina said operators would carry out the action if the cost of aviation fuel was not brought down to N400 per litre as against the prevailing price of N670 per litre. He also called on the government to grant airlines financial bailout. Sarina said his members could not cope with the high cost of operation worsened by an upsurge in the price of aviation fuel. He said: “Based on the cost component of airline operation in Nigeria, the actual cost for a ticket of one hour flight is N150,000 but passengers are being charged a paltry N50,000 which is not sustainable. “We are overburdened by this ticket subsidy and heavily indebted to banks with consequences of running out of business if required action is not taken.’’   AON’s first attempt to shut down/interventions  Worried over the threat, the National Assembly Committee on Aviation led by Senator Smart Adeyemi and his House of Representatives counterpart, Nnolim Nnaji convened a meeting of the parties to avoid a bedlam, if operators carried out the threat. Following the request by AON members, the Group Managing Director of Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC)  Limited, Mele Kyari, said operators would be granted licence to import aviation fuel. Kyari said the move was to check the rising cost of the product and help keep the airlines afloat. Kyari said aviation fuel dealers had been asked not to sell above N500 per litre. The NNPC boss said: “We know this is a very difficult situation. We know that once aviation fuel increases, prices of flight tickets will certainly rise and this can surely cost Nigerians. That is why we are working to ensure that pains are minimised. “So, what we have agreed with MOMAN, DAPMAN and the airline operators is that in three days, their representatives will sit down and agree on a transparent base for pricing. That means that they ought to have a benchmark that is quoted transparently in the market. “They will have a referenced exchange rate so that anyone can compete.They will also agree on a premium which differs from customer to customer, depending on the volume they buy and the credit level. “These are the things they can negotiate in three days and close so that going forward, there is a transparent decision on pricing. This will no doubt throw up the actual value of the product in the market. You will no longer see this discrepancy we have seen where some people are selling at N445 and some are selling at N630. “We also agreed that in the interim, between now and the three days we have to close negotiations. We agreed that they will sell at N500 in the next three days and after that, they will switch to a new price that everyone can assess. Chairman of Air Peace, who is also the Vice President of the AON,  Chief Allen Onyeama, commended the Legislature for its intervention but appealed to Nigerians to brace for a fare hike.   Drama by operators  About 40 days after indigenous carriers engaged the government on the aviation fuel brouhaha, they returned to the trenches to issue a new threat to withdraw services, citing further spike in the price of aviation fuel. President of the AON, Abdulmunaf Yunusa-Sarina  in the memo endorsed by nine  airline chiefs, namely: Executive Director of Max Air, Shehu Wada; Chairman, United Nigeria Airlines, Dr. Obiora Okonkwo; CEO of Ibom Air, Capt. Mfon Udom; CEO of Arik Air, Capt. Roy Ilegbodu; his counterpart in Aero Contractors, Capt. Abdullahi Mahmood; MD of Azman Air, Faisal Abdulmunaf; CEO of Overland Airways, Capt. Edward Boyo; Deputy CEO of Dana Air, Sukh Mann, and Chairman of Air Peace airline, Allen Onyema noted that the government’s earlier intervention in the aviation fuel crisis had failed to forestall imminent shutdown, with Jet-A1 scaling the N500/litre benchmark to N700. Yunusa noted that no airline could survive with the astronomical increase in aviation fuel and high cost of operations, yet continue to offer subsidised airfares to the travelling public. He observed that aviation fuel price had in about 12 months risen from N190 per litre to N700. He added: “No airline in the world can absorb this kind of sudden shock from such an astronomical rise over a short period. While aviation fuel worldwide is said to cost about 40 per cent of an airline’s operating cost globally, the present hike has shut Nigeria’s operating cost to about 95 per cent. “In the face of this, airlines have engaged the Federal Government, the National Assembly, NNPC and oil marketers with the view of bringing the cost of Jet-A1 down which has made the unit cost per seat for a one-hour flight in Nigeria to an average of N120, 000. The latter cannot be fully passed to passengers, who are already experiencing a lot of difficulties. “While AON appreciates the efforts of the government under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure air transport in Nigeria grows, unfortunately, the cost of aviation fuel has continued to rise unabated thereby creating huge pressure on the sustainability of operations and financial viability of the airlines. This is unsustainable and the airlines can no longer absorb the pressure. “To this end, therefore, the AON hereby wishes to regrettably inform the public that member airlines will discontinue operations nationwide with effect from Monday May 9, 2022, until further notice. AON regrets any inconveniences this very difficult decision might cause and appeal to travellers to kindly reconsider their travel itinerary and make alternative arrangements.”   Aviation minister/ Reps / others intervene To stave off the crisis, the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, appealed to the operators to put the country first and continue to salvage the situation until the Federal Government works out a lasting solution to the problem. While urging airline operators to wait on the government for a solution, Sirika, however, absolved the Ministry of any complicity in not securing approval for the import licence sought by AON members. In a statement, the Minister said: “As the Ministry charged with the management of the industry,  we are greatly concerned about the difficulties being faced by the airline operators in the country in procuring aviation fuel which has resulted in spiraling costs in Air transportation in the immediate past. “We also acknowledge that the airline operators are in the business to make profits, while servicing the very critical sector that is not only the preferred mode of transport for most Nigerians, but also the main international gateway to the nation. “Unfortunately the issue of fuel supply is not within the purview of the Ministry and so the most it can do in the present situation is to engage with agencies, institutions and individuals in positions to provide succour to the airlines. This is already being done by the relevant team led by the minister. “While the efforts to assuage the situation are on, we wish to appeal to the airline operators, even in the difficult situation, to consider the multiplier effect of shutting down operations, on Nigerians and global travellers, in taking their business-informed decisions and actions. “We also assure Nigerians, especially stakeholders in the sector, that the Buhari administration remains stoic in its commitment to the creation and sustenance of an environment that promotes the growth of the aviation industry where major players like the airlines can operate in a profitable and competitive market.” Besides, Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Aviation., Nnolim Nnaji said  the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila was disturbed by the reoccurring aviation fuel crisis. According to him, “the House of Representatives consequently plans to take a far reaching decision on the matter as soon as possible to ensure that the problem is permanently rested.” The Chairman,  however,  appealed to AON to rescind action on its planned shutdown of operations due to the escalating cost of  Jet-A1 Nnaji regretted that despite the last intervention of the leadership of the House of Representatives, the problem remained unabated and assured the airlines that his Committee and indeed the House leadership were not sleeping over their plight.   Collapse of collective resolution    ‘We have to restructure agriculture to win’     NPA needs N100b to fix infrastructure     Countries face food insecurity, says World Bank   A few days after the implementation of the threat to withdraw services, drama played out as Ibom Air, Dana Air, Arik Air, Overland, Green Africa Airways and  Aero Contractors announced their decision to pull out. Citing obligations to their passengers, who had paid for flights as well avoidance of litigation, state-run carrier – Ibom Air blazed the trail. Ibom Air further explained that having been paid by customers in advance for flight bookings, it was bound by contract to deliver the services paid to avoid exposing the airline to the risk of litigation. It said: “Ibom Air acknowledges the existential threat that these runaway fuel price increases pose for the air transport industry in Nigeria. We agree that this out-of-control situation is simply unsustainable. “However, every airline has its unique business model and pressures. We believe that in spite of the escalating fuel prices, airlines volunteering to stop operations would rather exacerbate an already bad situation. “Ibom Air has financial obligations to suppliers, financiers and staff, which depend on an uninterrupted flow of revenue to service.” It added: “More importantly is that having been paid by customers in advance for flight bookings, we are bound by contract to deliver the services already paid for, to avoid exposing the airline to the risk of avoidable litigation.” The statement  added that apart from the above factors, Ibom Air was the only airline serving Akwa Ibom State directly, and as such any voluntary stoppage of operations would  cut off access by air into and out of the state. Also, in a statement, by its Corporate Communications Manager, Kingsley Ezenwa, Dana Air  said: ”While Dana Air agrees with the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) on the challenges facing domestic airlines in Nigeria and have on many occasions actively participated in the collective and ongoing engagement of relevant authorities on the urgent need to tackle the many issues domestic airlines have been grappling with which includes the skyrocketing cost of Jet A1, we have taken a decision not to join the suspension of flights on May 9, 2022. “We acknowledge that the cost of jet A1 is unsustainable and should not be passed to the flying public, we, therefore, call on the government to resolve these unending operational challenges while Dana Air will continue to support every effort by the AON to achieve a quick and peaceful resolution in the interest of our dear country.”     Group reacts  Industry think tank group and safety advocate – Aviation Safety RoundTable Initiative (ASRTI),also shared its thoughts on the development. Its President, Dr Gbenga Olowo, who made this said known the threat to shut down would not be achieved because it is “ UnNigerian “, to cooperate, collaborate or even consolidate for such a common cause ,which would not have pushed the aviation sector to its current precarious stage. According to Olowo, the challenge of aviation has been in the sector for upwards of 20 years in Nigeria without serious attention. Olowo said: “Yet,  airlines keep operating out of being patriotic. Regrettably this is  planning for an  accident. Please heed the voice of the watchman. God forbid. This has been the essence of my consistent advocacy for upward review of tariffs all the time.. But, how high can tariffs go given the average passenger purchasing power? “ If any airline pretends about this problem, such an airline must be receiving subsidies for the business or cutting corners. No operational management skills can answer for this uncontrollable factor of the business. My take – the government must provide lasting solutions once and for all at this time. While I also appeal to the airlines to heed the Minister’s appeal to endure and stretch a little more but not beyond elastic limits.   MOMAN accuses airlines of distorting facts  MAJOR Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) also spared its thought on the issue insisting that claims by airline operators that  Aviation Turbine Kerosene (ATK), also known as aviation fuel, selling   at N700 per litre in some parts of the country was not true. Mr Clement Isong, executive secretary of MOMAN, made this knwon. Isong said: “I am not aware that aviation fuel is sold at N700 per litre. There has been an intervention by Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited, which is bringing in ATK. “It gets into the tank, all costs together, at about N500 per litre. If we use Ikeja (Murtala Muhammed Airport, local as a benchmark, it is sold there by marketers between N540 and N550 per litre. “Nobody with common sense will go and bring in ATK now that NNPC is bringing in products and selling them cheaply. “NNPC is bringing in the product because it is swapping it with crude and when it swaps it with crude, it uses the Central Bank exchange rate of N419 to a dollar. “The product is deregulated. So, no normal person can go and get it at that exchange rate. You cannot use N589 (black market rate) to a dollar to bring in the product and sell at N550 per litre.” According to him, the intervention by NNPC has discouraged marketers from importing aviation fuel because it will be a bad business decision. “ATK as a product is handled very carefully. It is continuously filtered. It is carried by special trucks, so there are extra handling costs. “Even with these costs, it is sold at the tarmac between N540 and N550 per litre in Lagos and by the time you carry it all over the country including transportation cost, it will be sold at about N570 or N580 at the farthest airport from Lagos. “There is nowhere aviation fuel to be sold at N700 per litre,” the executive secretary said. He said enquiries made by MOMAN showed that aviation fuel was cheaper in Nigeria compared to other West African countries. Isong said: “In Ghana, aviation fuel is sold at Platt, North Western Europe, plus premium or minus at 1.25 dollars per litre. “In Liberia and Sierra Leone, it is selling at 5.70 dollars per gallon, which translates to 1.51 dollars per litre. So, those are your West African prices. “Now, if you want to translate that to naira, if you are using the NNPC price which is N540, that is cheaper and even if you use the N700 they are claiming, it is still cheaper. “We are not selling it at N700 per litre because of the NNPC intervention. It is actually about 90 cents per litre with the NNPC price.” Isong empathised with the airlines, Federal Government and Nigerians struggling with the consequences of the increment in the price of crude oil at the international market. He blamed the hike in the price of crude oil and its derivatives, such as aviation fuel, petrol, diesel and kerosene, on the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. “The airlines know what they want, which is justification to increase their air fares. It is not only aviation fuel that has gone up, even though it is a contributory factor. “Cost of operation has gone up; there is inflation and anybody doing business will tell you that they are struggling. All businesses are struggling, including the airlines. “So, maybe they are looking for a bailout from the Federal Government because everybody needs some kind of bailout at the moment,” he said.   Way forward  A temporary solution  appears on the horizon to        resolve the crisis following the aviation fuel price increase, with the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited and domestic airline operators reaching a deal. It was agreed that the NNPC would supply Jet-A1 to marketers nominated by airline operators for a period of three months at N480 per litre, pending when the carriers would be granted licences to import the commodity. A former commandant of the Lagos Airport, Group Capt. John Ojikutu (rtd), said the sector is partly bearing the brunt of neglecting the Jet A1 supply pipeline from Ejigbo to Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos. He said if aviation fuel could be refined locally, part of the problems experienced by airlines would be minimised.