Management of the Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti (EKSU) and the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) are sharply divided over the resumption of academic activities in the institution. The university on Monday directed students and staff to resume on May 24, 2022 for continuation of the 2020/2021 academic session. But, the ASUU in the university, distanced itself from the resumption announced by the institution, insisting the lecturers were part of the nationwide strike declared by its national body. The union, in a statement jointly signed by the Chairman, Dr. Kayode Arogundade and the Secretary, Dr. Olawale Ogunwale, directed members to disregard notice of resumption, urging them to comply fully with the ASUU national body directives as against the institution announcement. The union said the academic staff were fully on strike in line with the directives of the national body and will not return to class until directed by the ASUU national leadership. “It is hereby affirmed that ASUU-EKSU branch is in full compliance with national strike that has just been rolled over for the next twelve weeks from 8th May 2022. The instruction handed down by the Vice-Chancellor in a meeting with the committee of Deans, that all academic staff should resume academic activities should be disregarded as it negates our current struggle as a union.   OLADIJI AS THE FRESH FERVOUR FOR FUTA     ASUU strike: NANS leaders, students take anger to the…     Anchor to be repositioned for effective delivery, says VC   “ASUU EKSU executive members were reliably informed from an impeccable source (name withheld) in EKSG that the visitor to the University has mandated the Vice-Chancellor to re-open the University in the next 24 hours or forfeit his Job. “ASUU EKSU wishes to use the medium to announce to thepublic that mandating the re-opening of the University is purely political and EKSG is not ready to attend to the demand of the University”. The union said it was aware of the antics of “some insignificant lecturers” playing political harlotry with the destiny of the majority of ASUU members, threatening to sanction lecturers who comply with the resumption notice. It added that its executive members have been receiving threat messages from the university’s management and agents of the state government, saying that should anything happen to them they would be held responsible. ASUU said that the resumption notice of the institution was laced with political intention, urging parents and guardian not to allow their children to be used as political thugs in the forthcoming June 18 governorship poll in the state. It added; “One wonders why the lackluster administration in Ekiti state on its way to the Golgotha is now keen on resumption only to put the life of our students at risk. ‘Parents are therefore urged to monitor the movement of their wards who are the main target to be used as thugs in the coming election hence the resumption saga.”