Former Minister of State for Education Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba has said the insertion of controversial letter of withdrawal in the Expression of Interest and Nomination forms sold to presidential aspirants by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) was in order. Endorsing the party’s decision to insert the controversial document during an interactive session with newsmen in Abuja, the presidential hopeful said the letter would come in handy if the party decides to adopt a consensus arrangement in selecting candidates for the party All aspirants jostling for the party’s tickets are to fill and sign the withdrawal letter addressed to the National Chairman after it has been duly signed before a Commissioner of Oath/Public Notary. Nwajiuba enjoined delegates at the national convention of the party to set aside their pecuniary interest and elect a flag bearer with the wherewithal to address the multifaceted challenges besetting the country. He also expressed his readiness to accept any candidate the consensus arrangement of the party will throw insisting: “It’s not possible to win an election without the consent of everybody. So why would you be saying I can only win if I am the most powerful.   Buhari appoints Gov Sule member Council on Digital Economy     Foundation urges APC, PDP delegates     Ex-Minister, Senator emerge Kwara PDP senatorial candidates   “You can only win by consensus arrangement. So whatever consensus my party agrees to, I will agree. If they choose me, it’s good for them and Nigeria. If you don’t choose me whoever they choose is what they plan to offer. “And that dovetail to whether it is legal or not ethical to withdraw ahead of an exercise, yes. In every situation you make provision. “The Supreme Court repeatedly ruled that political parties are not parastatal of government. The way you regard Boys brigade, Girl’s guide, Rotary. They are associations and are regarded as voluntary associations. The only thing the Supreme Court has held repeatedly from Onuoha vs Okafor since 1983 all through the history of Supreme Court cases, they have been consistent that the party is supreme. “The only condition is that the party must obey their guidelines. If we are in a rule-based society, understand that political parties make their own rules and if this is what they have said they want to do you may be guided on what they want you to do. “So I know that if Nigerians are willing and of course if my party selects me, in selecting me APC would be speaking to 90 per cent of demographics of Nigeria. They would be speaking to the 70 per cent who are below 50 years who believe that if it is possible to elect somebody who is 55 years old, there is hope for them. “I am providing the most potent deliverables for Nigerians. If APC picks me they would be speaking to elders that I can capable of representing them. Almost all my supporters are above my age.”