Norebase, a startup building single platform for businesses to start, scale and operate in any African country, has secured $1 million pre-seed funding. The funding round was co-led by Samurai Incubate and Consonance Investment. Sahil Lavingia (Gumroad) and Kinfolk VC also invested in it. The round also included participation from Future Africa, Ventures Platform, Microtraction, Boleh Venture, Voltron Capital, Wuri Ventures, Afropreneur, and angel investments from African tech ecosystem leaders Shola Akinlade (Paystack), Odunayo Eweniyi (Piggyvest), Adia Sowho (MTN Nigeria), Akin Oyebode, and Seni Sulyman. The fund will help accelerate the company’s plans to build a plug-and-play  incorporation technology, broaden its trademark registration technology stack, bolster its existing team of world-class talent and develop more research-led solutions.   ‘Inflation affecting growth of real estate sector’     Airlines seek urgent government intervention to stay afloat     Wema Bank promotes 1,000   Norebase is building Africa’s company and trademark platform that simplifies the start and scale processes for businesses in the continent and beyond. Also, Norebase has launched its  API service to enable other companies to provide incorporation services to their customers via their websites. By integrating with Norebase API, any company can provide its customer with a simple form, and the information filled on that form is automatically transmitted to Norebase to register a business on behalf of that customer. After incorporation, the business registration documents are also transmitted back through the API. Norebase API enables businesses such as banks, credit bureaus, payment processors, vendors, and any company that interact with registered businesses to eliminate any drop-off point in their product process and eliminate the need to wait for customers to leave their website/app to register a business before using the service. Companies can provide this additional service to their customers without incurring additional operational costs. Norebase’s Incorporation API is currently available for incorporating business in Nigeria, the USA, and Kenya with additional markets being added overtime.