The Sustainable Development Goals (or Global Goals) are a collection of 17 interlinked global goals designed to be the blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all. Gender equality is the fifth of the SDGs 17 goals established by the United Nations in 2015. The SDG 5 main focus is to “achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls” because gender equality is not only a fundamental human right, but a necessary foundation for a peaceful, prosperous and sustainable world. According to experts, gender equality is a notion that all services, opportunities and establishments are open to all people and that male and female stereotypes do not define societal roles and expectations. While Nigeria subscribes to the implementation of the SDGs and the African Union’s (AU) Agenda 2063, it took the Federal High Court in Abuja to order the Federal Government to implement its 35 per cent affirmative action policy on public service positions before President Muhammadu Buhari assured the nation that he would ensure the implementation of the court judgment. The President, who spoke through the Minister of Women Affairs, Pauline Tallen, promised to reserve 35 per cent of appointments in the public offices for women. However, the promise is yet to materialise into action. Surprisingly, Mrs. Uzoma Ikechi Emenike, a politician, writer and diplomat, is the current Nigerian Ambassador to the United States since her appointment and official designation last year. Lessons from the U.S., EU, UK? But for countries like the United States, the European Union (EU) member states and United Kingdom (UK), promoting gender inclusion through the creation of demonstrative examples of the concept in action is of the utmost importance. It is not surprising that United States Ambassador to Nigeria Mary Beth Leonard, European Union Ambassador to Nigeria, and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Ambassador Samuela Isopi, British High Commissioner to Nigeria Catriona Laing and German Ambassador Birgitt Ory are all women. Many other women are also holding critical positions in diplomatic missions in Nigeria and other parts of the world. The duties of a diplomatic mission are germane in relationship between two countries because the job entails representing the sending state well in the host state,  the protection within the host state of the interests of the sending state and its nationals as well as their property and shares in firms, the negotiation and signing of agreements with the host state when authorised, the reporting and gathering of information by all lawful means on conditions and developments in the host country for the sending government. Such diplomatic missions also promote friendly relations between the two states and the furthering of their economic, commercial, cultural, and scientific relations. They also provide public services for their nationals, including acting as a notary public, providing electoral registration, issuing passports and papers for military conscription, referring injured or sick nationals to local physicians and lawyers, and ensuring non-discriminatory treatment for those charged with or imprisoned for crimes. Since taking charge at their countries’ missions, many believe Nigeria’s relationship with their countries have strengthened.  Ambassador Leonard and her accomplishments so far Before reporting in Nigeria, Ambassador Leonard served as the representative of the United States of America to the African Union, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, serving concurrently as U.S. Permanent Representative to the UN Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA) from 2016-2019.  Before her sojourn in Ethiopia, she was previously the U.S. envoy to the Republic of Mali from 2011-2014.  Her service in Mali was recognised with the Department’s Diplomacy for Human Rights Award in 2013, an honour that yearly recognises a U.S. Chief of Mission, who has demonstrated extraordinary commitment to defending human rights and advancing democratic principles in his or her host country. Among others, she served as the State Department’s Senior Faculty Advisor at the U.S. Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island, following a year as the Department’s Diplomat in Residence for New England, based at Tufts University.  Ambassador Leonard was the Director for West African Affairs at the U.S. Department of State from 2009-2011, and Deputy Chief of Mission in Bamako, Mali from 2006-2009. Since coming to Nigeria, the American envoy has improved ties in the area of culture, education, promotion of intellectual property, tackled issues of genital mutilation, fight rights abuse, promote establishment of 18 American Corners and American Spaces in Nigeria for students, teachers, entrepreneurs, academics, journalists, civic organisations, government officials, and community leaders, in addition to many others. On economic from, the U.S. goods and services trade with Nigeria, according to Office of United States Trade Representative, totalled an estimated $10.4 billion in 2019. Exports were $5.3 billion; imports were $5.1 billion. The U.S. goods and services trade surplus with Nigeria was $251 million in 2019. Nigeria is currently our 54th largest goods trading partner with $7.8 billion in total (two way) goods trade during 2019. Goods exports totalled $3.2 billion; goods imports totalled $4.6 billion. The U.S. goods trade deficit with Nigeria was $1.4 billion in 2019. Trade in services with Nigeria (exports and imports) totalled an estimated $2.6 billion in 2019. Services exports were $2.1 billion; services imports were $464 million. The U.S. services trade surplus with Nigeria was $1.7 billion in 2019. In the area of export, Nigeria was the United States’ 52nd largest goods export market in 2019. America’s goods exports to Nigeria in 2019 were $3.2 billion, up 19.1% ($512 million) from 2018 but down 13.2% from 2009. The top export categories (2-digit HS) in 2019 were: vehicles ($938 million), cereals (wheat) ($494 million), machinery ($479 million), mineral fuels ($287 million), and plastics ($189 million). U.S. total exports of agricultural products to Nigeria totalled $608 million in 2019. Leading domestic export categories include: wheat ($473 million), prepared food ($24 million), wine & beer ($24 million), condiments & sauces ($11 million), and vegetable oils (ex. soybean) ($7 million). U.S. exports of services to Nigeria were an estimated $2.1 billion in 2019, 5.1% ($115 million) less than 2018, but 63.8% greater than 2009 levels.  Leading services exports from the U.S. to Nigeria were in the travel, transport, and technical and other services sectors. On imports, Nigeria was the America’s 51st largest supplier of goods imports in 2019. U.S. goods imports from Nigeria totalled $4.6 billion in 2019, down 17.9% ($1.0 billion) from 2018, and down 75.9% from 2009. On trade balance, the U.S. goods trade deficit with Nigeria was $1.4 billion in 2019, a 51.9% decrease ($1.5 billion) over 2018.The United States has a services trade surplus of an estimated $1.7 billion with Nigeria in 2019, down 6.2% from 2018. According to records, the U.S. foreign direct investment (FDI) in Nigeria (stock) was $5.5 billion in 2019, a 21.5% increase from 2018. Ambassador Isopi Ms Isopi arrived in Abuja to assume duties as Ambassador of the European Union to Nigeria and to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) on August 31, 2021. She presented her letters of Credence to President Buhari on October 25, 2021. Before her current duty in Nigeria, Ms Isopi, who is an Italian diplomat, occupied the same position of EU Ambassador at the EU Delegation in Bangui, Central African Republic. She had previously served as Ambassador of Italy to Cameroon, with concurrent accreditation to Central African Republic, Chad and Equatorial Guinea. Previous postings include the Russian Federation, Afghanistan, Vietnam and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as Deputy Head of Mission and First Counsellor.   It’s too late to tinker with 2023 elections timelines, says…     Sylva, Tallen opt not to resign     Eight killed, 32 vehicles burnt in Southeast’s bloody Monday   A career diplomat, Ms Isopi brings to her current posting a swathe of experience gained from 24 years of working with the foreign service of her home country and that of the European Union. She has worked in some of the most demanding political terrains in far-flung regions of the World, including Southeast and Southern Asia, West and Central Africa as well as Eastern Europe. Ms Isopi represents the EU in its diplomatic engagements and multi-faceted bilateral cooperation with both Nigeria and the regional institution. She regularly engages with government officials, the diplomatic community, multi-lateral organisations and development partners, the civil society, the youth, the business community and the private sector, as well as with the media, to explain the policies, programmes and values of the European Union. The new EU Ambassador, who also engaged in Mediation Diplomacy and Support during her career, provides the lead in the regular political dialogue with Nigerian authorities; oversees development cooperation and negotiates trade deals. She works in close coordination with the 19 EU member states with diplomatic representation in the country. These include Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, Ireland, Greece, Spain, France, Italy, Hungary, the Netherlands, Austria, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Finland and Sweden. Recently, Ambassador Isopi said the EU-Nigeria trade balance was in favour of Nigeria as the bloc’s import from Nigeria was in the region of 17 billion Euro and its export to Nigeria was around 11 billion Euro. Isopi, who spoke in Abuja in a press conference ahead of this year’s Europe Day celebration, said: “The total EU and Nigeria trade volume in 2021, amounting to 28.7 billion Euro, it’s quite interesting with a country like Nigeria. EU imports from Nigeria amount to 17.5 billion Euro and EU exports to Nigeria amount to 11.2 billion Euro, which means that the trade balance, which amounted to 6.4 billion Euro is in favour of Nigeria.  So, Nigeria is benefitting from its economic and trade relations with the EU and this is a reality and this is why we believe that we will do well.” High Commissioner Laing High Commissioner Laing was appointed Her Majesty’s High Commissioner to the Federal Republic of Nigeria in November 2018. Before her posting to Nigeria, she was the British Ambassador to Zimbabwe from 2014 to 2018. She has extensive experience representing the UK in many capacities. She joined the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) in 2012 as the UK’s senior civilian representative to the NATO operation in southern Afghanistan. She was once the Director of Human Rights and International at the Ministry of Justice from 2009 to 2012, Head of DFID in Sudan from 2006 to 2009, Head of DFID’s International Division Advisory Department from 2005 to 2006 and seconded to the Cabinet Office as Deputy Director of the Prime Minister’s strategy unit from 2001 to 2005. Owing to her performance, the envoy was awarded The Order of the Bath (CB) in 2012. On diplomatic front, Britain and Nigeria have over the years established mutual ties, following their colonial affiliation. Both nations have also maintained trade intercourse under the umbrella of the Commonwealth nations, which was founded on 11th December 1931 with over 54 member nations currently. Since Nigeria gained its independence in 1960, it has maintained strong diplomatic relations with Great Britain, its former colonial masters. The post-colonial era has seen United Kingdom as one of Nigeria’s closest allies, as such Nigeria’s internal affairs, including security issues has been London’s major concern. The UK is usually in the top five of Nigeria’s trade partners, and is the largest source of capital inflows into Nigeria – including investment from the City of London. Nigeria and the United Kingdom (UK), under High Commissioner Laing, recently restated commitment to removing bilateral trade barriers between the two countries. They also pledged to establish an official working group to enhance the trade partnership for mutual benefits. Besides, they have agreed to channel their energy towards how the bilateral relations could be exploited and enhanced for the benefit of all. Ambassador Ory Ambassador Ory is a German diplomat born in 1964 and was posted to Nigeria in September 2019. She graduated from high school in Neustadt in Holstein in 1983 and went on to study political science, communications, and German literature at Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, where she graduated summa cum laude. She was assigned her first diplomatic post by the Federal Foreign Office in 1990 as an attachée at the Diplomatic Academy in Bonn, also working at the École nationale d’administration and the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs. She had occupied many diplomatic positions since joining her country’s foreign service. She presented her credentials to President Muhammadu Buhari on September 19, 2019. Since her posting to Nigeria, Ambassador Ory has on several occasions called for a stronger partnership between the European Union and African nations, particularly Nigeria and the Economic Community of West African States. She said her embassy closely worked with Nigerian government agencies and local communities to help prevent the spread of the coronavirus, including starting an initiative to provide free face masks and hand washing stations throughout the country. On 12 August 2020, Ory voiced support for the Nigerian government’s fight against trafficking illicit wildlife products. Nigeria, as of 2019, is Germany’s second largest trading partner in Sub-Saharan Africa. In 2019, Germany exported US$1.2 Billion worth of goods to Nigeria. Top exports from Germany to Nigeria include rubber working machinery and cars. With their achievements, formidable qualifications and diplomatic posts they have bestrode, the ambassadors have sent messages to their Nigerian folks they can become anything they dreamt of. Foreign affairs experts’ views Acting Director of Research in Nigerian Institute of International Affairs, Dr. Efem Ubi, in an interview with The Nation, said: “The U.S. and its allies are trying to portray that gender equality be given credibility. It is high time we began to understand that women should be part of governance. It is no longer a man’s world as we used to believe. They are also saying that women should be given leadership roles and that discrimination based on sexes should be avoided.” Dr. Ubi also noted that the Ukrainian ambassador to the U.S. is a woman and likewise American ambassador to Ukraine. According to him, the logic behind this is that merit should be considered in appointment and elective roles. Also a senior fellow with NIIA and a gender inclusive expert, Dr Tola Ilesanmi, told The Nation: “The message the U.S. and others are saying is clear. It is a global drive. The world has come to realise that Nigeria has a lot of lesson to learn from this. Our leaders have not come to realise that equal participation is what the world is driving at now and that you can’t leave behind 50 per cent of your population. “Rwanda is one of the fastest growing economies in Africa with the inclusion of women in its leadership roles. South Africa, Senegal, Namibia and others are following Rwanda’s example. This is a lesson not only to Nigeria, but the global community.” It is, therefore, not surprising that the U.S., UK and EU countries are not limiting gender inclusion to leadership roles, but sensitive roles like the diplomatic terrain.