There is the need for a common regional infrastructure development policy for the Southwest, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Lagos State Development and Property Corporation (LSPDC), Ayodeji Joseph, has said. In an interview with The Nation in his office, he said the policy would bring about an effective economic trade and political integration. He said if well-implemented,  the  policy would help decongest the city and residents of blighted areas within the state could be relocated to new planned areas in the region to pave way for re-planning of the blighted areas. Ayodeji said the measure would also address the issues of regional imbalance, boundary disputes and enhance even distribution of resources across the region. Speaking on how the agency has helped in providing housing for over 20 million Lagosians, he said the enabling edict of LSDPC set out its functions as that of providing housing for both residential as well as business/commercial purpose and also ensuring maintenance of same. He said: “With this mandate, the corporation has developed several housing estates in the state since its inception. Some of these estates includes Courtland Villas Igbokusu-Lekki, Lekki Apartments, Lekki,  Phoenix Apartments Olutunda-Ilupeju, Sunnyville Apartments, Ogba, Bayview Estate, and Elegushi-Lekki.” Asked in which segment of the market they operate, he said they operated between the lower and middle income strata of the society. Besides the corporation specialises in residential, commercial  and industrial real estate. On how sustainable urbanisation could be ensured in a city as densely populated as Lagos, the LSDPC chief said they contribute to making Lagos a sustainable city through the preparation and implementation of physical planning laws in the estates. He said: “A strict residential area should not accommodate industrial sites but could be backed up with commercial activities to sustain the estate. A good example is the M.K.O. Abiola Gardens. We also sustain urbanisation through the provision of adequate shelter and housing for all at affordable rate.   ‘Govt has failed in social housing’     Estate surveyors, engineers bicker over property valuation     Standardise building materials, others, says expert   “Another example in the hinterland is one of our recent developments at B. O. Benson Estate, Ibeshe, Ikorodu, where we collaborated with the Ministry of Housing to provide mass housing; and we are looking to provide more of such in areas such as Badagry. “Others are in Lekki, Victoria Island, Ikoyi, Ogba, Ilupeju and Surulere.” Speaking on how well environmental issues are managed in the estates, he said there were various ways they intervened on environmental issues. “We have intervened such as building eco-friendly initiatives and managing refuse disposal by ensuring that refuse is sorted out according to their material contents for recycling purposes,’’ he added. He explained that before a project begins, an Environmental Impact Analysis (EIA) is conducted with the result imputed into the design of the project. Also he stated that they have a relationship with LAWMA/PSP (Private Sector Participants) to assist with waste management in all their estates. On how digitalization can solve problems of land ownership and land access in Lagos, he said it will help provide more accurate and dependable data.” It will also reduce and gradually phase out the need for manual procedures involved in transferring titles from the Corporation to its customers as well as further assignment of such titles to third parties. You gain a quicker turnaround time in land transaction and boost private investors’ confidence in the Corporation’s capacity to provide home ownership which addresses the housing need of Lagosians”. Asked why some LSDPC buildings seem derelict as a result of poor maintenance culture, he retorted that the estates are not abandoned and that they are managed for a period of two years after completion and commencement of occupancy after which they are handed over w to the estates residents association to take care of. On the challenges of the construction sector in the medium term, the LSDPC chief said: “ The construction industry in Nigeria is going through some peculiar challenges particularly in the execution and regulation aspects of projects. Some of these challenges include: lack of finance, inherited planning inadequacies, lack of skilled workforce, inadequate skill management, strangulating bureaucratic processing for construction approvals, amongst others”.