The Nigerian Navy (NN) has said it is in the process of taking delivery of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), to enhance Maritime Surveillance and Domain Awareness. It said the construction of SDB IV and V had begun at the Naval Dockyard Limited, Lagos. The Chief of Policy and Plans, Nigerian Navy, Real Admiral S. S. Garba, spoke at a news conference to mark the 66th anniversary of the Service. He said: “Over time, the Nigerian Navy has grown from an offshoot of the Nigerian Marines to a formidable component of the nation’s security architecture and a major player in the Gulf of Guinea (GoG). “It is evident that the Navy today has made remarkable contribution to the peace, progress, prosperity and global image of our nation. With this legacy of service to the nation, the NN is justified to celebrate its founding days annually. Elaborate arrangements have been made to mark the 2022 NN Week. “Navy has made giant strides, especially in the areas of Fleet Recapitalisation and operational activities. The continuing Recapitalisation of the Fleet is a top priority of the NN under the incumbent Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo. The support of the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, through aggressive fleet recapitalisation, led to acquisition of several capital ships, fast patrol boats, inshore patrol crafts, including air assets as well as the indigenous construction of Seaward Defence Boats (SDB).”   Wike dissolves Exco, sacks CoS, SA     ‘I will sign law establishing Fraud institute’     CNPP urges Buhari to sack ministers   Garba continued: “Last December, Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) LANA, a hydrographic survey ship, joined the fleet from France, while the contract for another 35m hydrographic survey ship has been signed with OCEA Shipbuilding, France. “Also, on April 1, 2022, the Service took delivery of its newly constructed Landing Ship Tank (LST) – 100, NNS KADA at DAMEN Shipyard in Sharjah, UAE. Subsequently, the vessel set sail on her maiden voyage to Nigeria. Ladies and gentlemen of the press, NNS KADA is expected in the country on May 27, 2022. “Efforts are ongoing for the acquisition of another LST. Furthermore, the NN recently signed a contract with DEARSAN Shipyard of Turkey for the construction of 2 X 76m High Endurance Offshore Patrol Vessels (OPVs). “The NN is also in the process of taking delivery of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) to enhance our Maritime Surveillance/Domain Awareness assets, including NN response capability. Needful to add that the construction of SDB IV and V at Naval Dockyard Limited, Lagos has begun. “Consequent upon the Fleet Recapitalisation efforts, the NN has achieved significant milestones in ensuring improved maritime security for the nation’s economic prosperity. I am pleased to inform you that there has been successive decline in reported cases of piracy and sea robbery attacks within Nigeria’s maritime domain, leading to improved shipping into Nigeria’s waters with attendant positive impact on the nation’s economy. “This noble achievement was complemented by the International Maritime Bureau Global Piracy Report of 14 July 2021, which indicated the lowest number of piracy and sea robbery against ships in our waters in 27 years. The report was corroborated by the Defence Web, which noted further decline in reported cases of piracy and armed attacks against shipping in Nigerian waters. “I am pleased to notify that the latest International Maritime Bureau report of March 3, 2022 shows that Nigeria has exited the IMB’s Piracy List. This means Nigeria is no longer on the list of piracy prone countries.  The consequences are enormous and positive for the shipping industry, general maritime commerce, and the national economy.”