Super Eagles defender Calvin Bassey put in a masterclass of a performance despite Glasgow Rangers penalty loss to Eintracht Frankfurt in the Europa League final on Wednesday. After 120 minutes of football with the score tied at 1-1, a penalty shoot-out decided a tense final in Seville with Aaron Ramsey missing the decisive spot kick that handed the trophy to the Bundesliga side. Rangers took the lead through another Nigeria international Joe Aribo in the second-half and perhaps had the better of the chances to seal the win before the penalty shoot-out. Frankfurt also pushed hard for a winner however with Bassey making a number of superb recovery challenges to thwart the opposition while being a dominant force in aerial challenges all evening. According to BBC.com, Bassey was excellent against Eintracht at the Ramon Sanchez Pizjuan Stadium just as he has been throughout Rangers’ run to the final. He won seven of his 11 duels on the night, four of his five aerially, won possession back nine times, and made three interceptions. Twice in extra time, with other players going down with cramps, he made two incredible recovery runs. First, after losing his footing he went back to make a crucial tackle to stop a close-range shot. Then a few minutes later, he chased down Ansgar Knauff and stopped the wing-back getting a free effort at goal. Those were just a couple of examples of him using his athleticism, and there were countless others as he used sheer brute strength to defend stoutly. But he is also comfortable on the ball and in previous rounds demonstrated his ability to drive forward from the back. Former Manchester United and England midfielder Owen Hargreaves hailed the performance of the Nigeria international, insisting he is the sort of player any teammate, manager or supporter would want in their team. “Calvin Bassey, my word, what a performance,” Hargreaves told BT Sport. “That was astonishing, the energy and effort. Everything about his game was fantastic.   EPL: Chelsea secure third-place with Leicester draw     EPL: Aston Villa, Burnley settle for draw     EPL: Stunning Everton comeback secures Premier League status   “Anyone watching that will be thinking: ‘That’s the kind of player I want in my team”. Former Rangers legend and manager Ally McCoist described the 22-year-old as a “colossus” and sees a bright future for the former Leicester City academy player. “Calvin Bassey has been absolutely phenomenal,” McCoist said on BT Sport. “He has been a colossus this evening (Wednesday).” “Bassey has come so far, so quickly,” former Rangers striker Mark Hateley said on BBC Scotland’s Sportsound. “He’s established himself as a centre-half, wing-back, full-back. He’s put himself in a place right now where I imagine there’s a lot of clubs looking at him. He’s still only 22-years-old. He has been outstanding.” “He looked sensational tonight, absolutely sensational. I thought he was the best player on the pitch,” talkSPORT host Jason Cundy said on The Sports Bar. “He was immense, 22 years of age. He is destined for big things, this kid – he was absolutely superb tonight.” Meanwhile, English Premier League side Aston Villa have been tipped as the favourites to sign Bassey this summer. Villa boss Steven Gerrard brought the left-back turned centre-back to Glasgow two years ago, as he joined from Leicester City and reports suggest the Liverpool legend would be keen to reunite with Bassey at Villa Park, with the defender putting in several impressive performances for Giovanni van Bronckhorst’s men. Coral’s John Hill said: “Calvin Bassey did his reputation no harm at all with an excellent performance in the Europa League final. “The Rangers defender could be set for a move this summer, and we make Aston Villa the favourites to capture his signature.”