The Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) has destroyed more than 400 carts, confiscated from pushers, who dump waste at unauthorised locations across the city. Commenting on the exercise, which took place at LAWMA’s Ogudu facility, the Managing Director/CEO, Mr. Ibrahim Odumboni, said the exercise would be continuous. He said it had become necessary to weaken the cart pushers’ ability to return to business, adding that their activities remained banned. Odumboni also said cart pushers pose a threat not only to environmental sustainability but to the security of residents. “Cart pushers are about the biggest threat to our effort at attaining environmental sustainability. We will not allow anyone or group of persons to derail the ongoing efforts to make the environment better. Criminal elements have hidden under this guise to carry out heinous crimes. If there are no carts to push, they will get other jobs.”   ‘Adopt people-centred approach to tackling…     DSS gets court’s nod to detain terror suspect for 60…     Fed Govt to procure more equipment for Air Force   “They pose as much threat to the environment as to the security of the citizens. It will shock you to know that many of them keep weapons like knives, machetes, etc, in their carts to attack and dispossess unsuspecting persons when the opportunity presents itself,” he said. One of such cart pusher was tried and jailed last week, having been apprehended at Victoria Island, vandalising and stealing government’s iron rods. There have been many reported cases of theft of movable items from people’s compounds traced to them,” he said. The LAWMA boss disclosed that opportunity was open for repentant cart-pushers, to step forward, get registered with LAWMA, given proper orientation, and trained as pickers and offtakers of recyclables, working hand in hand with other stakeholders in the waste management chain. Odumboni maintained that government was not interested in taking away their means of livelihood, which however has to be within the confines of the law.