Tertiary students across the country have decried the killing of Deborah Samuel in Sokoto State.They want government to bring her killers to book and curtail the excesses of religious extremists. Report CALEB IJIOMA (AAP), PEACE OLADIPO (FUOYE), TOSIN ODUNEWU (UNILAG), SAMUEL AGBELUSI (AAUA), FORTUNE AMAECHI (ABSU) and GLORY THOMAS (OGITECH). Last Thursday, social media users and students across the country received with shock the death of Miss Deborah Samuel, a 200-Level Economics student at Shehu Shagari College of Education in Wamako, Sokoto State. CAMPUS LIFE gathered that the cause of her death was  a voice note the deceased sent to her class’ WhatsApp group. She was said to have protested  the incessant sending of Muslim messages to the group by her mates. The voice note made in Hausa was translated as:  “This group chat was not created for you to be sending nonsense. It is for past questions, updates about tests … Not for nonsense or some rubbish prophet.” She was later accused of blasphemy against the Prophet Mohammed (SAW), killed and her corpse set ablaze. Her murder has since sparked outrage across the country with many condemning it and calling for perpetrators to face the wrath of the law. The Sokoto State Government also shut the school till further notice.   Students incensed, want govt to bring  perpetrators to book  Mohammed Halimat-Oyibo, a student at  Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, condemned the killing of Deborah. She described it as a sin. “For me, it was a wrong action to take. There is no religion that says kill because your religion was insulted. Killing is a sin already. The government should make sure those arrested in connection to her murder should face the law,” she said. Toheeb Shittu of the Abraham Adesanya Polytechnic said the police and relevant authorities should avoid playing hide and seek and those involved should be severely dealt with. “First, the event is a reflection of how far we have failed as a nation; letting religious beliefs reduce how we see ourselves. People now praise religion over humanity and it is  a slap on the faces of every single person that claims ‘religious’ but does not regard the essence of humanity. It is hard to solve this issue and the government has much to do. “The killers have to face death sentences. This is not the time for the Police and relevant authorities to play hide and seek. All those involved in the death of Deborah need to be arrested and made to face the full extent of the law,” he said. A student at Obafemi Awolowo Univerisity (OAU), Abiodun Adesanya, said the murder of Deborah was an unfortunate but avoidable incident. He advised  religious leaders to  be careful with their teachings. He said: “The gruesome murder of Deborah Samuel is an unfortunate but avoidable event. This is not the first time we are experiencing such in this country, particularly in the northern region. There are ways to curb this ignominy.   The Federal Government and particularly the Sokoto Government must bring  Deborah’s killers to book. Justice delayed is justice denied. If this is not done, no one knows the next “Deborah”. “Religious leaders should be careful with what they teach their subjects. ‘’The government also needs to encourage formal western education in the north, even as religion should be inculcated in their syllabus.” Amanda Odiete of the University of Benin said the school should remain shut and perpetrators made to face the law. “Her murderers must be apprehended, the school should be shut down for a while,” she said. Olagija Oluwapleumi, a student of the Ekiti State University (EKSU) said the constitution needs to be made rigid to avoid a  recurrence. “The death of Deborah is saddening. It is  a clear display of  the government’s failure to secure students’ lives, even Nigerian lives as a whole. It’s quite awful that the Nigerian constitution is flexible, and the only way to avoid the recurrence of this is to have a rigid constitution.Nobody has the   right to kill for blasphemy, I hope  the government will do the needful,” she said. Eunice Musa, a student at the University of Abuja, said the government should investigate and ensure that the school is penalised for not curtailing the issue. She said government needs to ensure that the activities of religious extremists are not tolerated. “A similar situation occurred in Kano some time ago, a woman was killed and a rich official bought the case (used the money to take over the case and ensured the release of the perpetrator). What the government should do is investigate why a school didn’t even have security and if they had one, why was no report made? “Another thing should be ensuring that  activities  of religious extremists are no longer  tolerated,” she said. Oladapo Kehinde Olawale, a 400-Level student at Tai Solarin University of Education (TASUED), Ogun State,said: “It is heartbreaking to hear the death of a fellow student. Government should ensure it deals with everyone involved without any  bias.” Oyewole Jeremiah, a student at Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY),Ogun State, said:  “The murder of  Deborah  is totally unacceptable and  culprits must not go scot-free.  Students must be taught how to tolerate each other.” A student at  Landmark University,Omu Aran, Kwara State Michael Uzoma noted that the deceased deserves   justice. Ayo Genesis, a student at Covenant University, Ota, Ogun State,said: “It is indeed  sad because the girl in question did not do any thing strange. According to some Muslims, this is not even the first time such would happen, so why that kind of treatment?  Justice must be served.” Chime Augustine, a student at Modibbo Adama University of Technology(Federal University of Technology) Yola,said mankind has always found excuses to perpetuate evil. His words: “My experience with these religion extremists is a very bad one. It is only God that is saving us the Christians in their area. This has been going on for years not just today.” He noted that with education and  poverty reduction,  religious extremism can be curbed. “Religion is one of the excuses mankind uses to perpetuate evil. The only thing to be done is to improve the standard of our society and improve our education.   ‘Why students prefer studying abroad’     Varsity plans big for Nigerian students     Student urges Lagos govt on cleaner environment   “Maybe with education and poverty reduction,we can curb religious extremism. Government can do that by  putting the necessary things in place,” he said. Peter Adekunle, a Law student at  Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba- Akoko, said: “This is a barbaric act that needs to be thoroughly investigated. If the matter is not carefully handled,it can escalate into a religious war. Those culpable should be severely punished.” Aiyegbeni Esther, a 200-Level University of Lagos (UNILAG) student, said: “If the penalty for speaking out against something was death, a lot of people would have been dead by now. “Her death was uncalled for, it was just the forceful taking of a young life. “Also, if we want to be honest, it seems very   difficult to curb religious extremism, especially when the people are deeply rooted in it. The law says we are not to go into jungle justice but report any activity or anyone to the Police. If that act had been reported, I am  sure the story would not have been like this. “Maybe it is time for the government to do what killers do too. When you kill unworthily, you in turn will be killed because these senseless killings are saddening.” However, Ogundimu Ololade, a student at Obafemi Awolowo University(OAU), Ile-Ife, Osun State, believes the case would be swept under the carpet. ” I do not  see  government doing anything about it.This is not the first time this is  happening.  It is a recurring decimal. If the government really wanted to take action towards tackling religious extremism, it would have done it,” he said. Oladipo Ayobami, a student at the Federal Polytechnic, Bida, Niger State, said: “In  this century and age, our eyes should be open. We are students and we are expected to be humane than this. I felt bad. Religion should not create terrorists out of us. “The government must ensure justice prevails. Those responsible should be brought to book,they should be made a lesson to others who may have this kind of intention.” Oyindamola Rihanat, a 300-Level  Mass Communication student at Federal University Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE) described the act as unjustifiable, stressing that it underscored the tense security situation of the country. Her words: ” It is unjust and it feels like we have no government. We live in a lawless country.  How would students feel comfortable burning another student right on campus? The act is unjustifiable and it underlines the  terrible security situation of the country. ‘’As far as  I am concerned,  government needs to act right and punish the offenders severely  to serve as warning to others.” Hussein Abdulbasit, National President, Political Science Students, said: “What happened in Sokoto is a simple and complex case of injustice by the ignorant ones who  hide under the umbrella of  religion to show their intolerance. ‘’Blasphemy is not good, Islam frowns at it, but Islam does not give anyone or group the right to serve justice on anyone unless by the appropriate authority. “The mob that killed  Deborah, are they the Sultanate council to have done that? So, irrespective of what Deborah did  to have stirred the rage, the same Prophet teaches us to be calm in the face of anger in one of his reported collections of Ahadith (sayings of the prophet). “Dike Chukwumerije, one of the foremost Nigerian performance poets, noted that  no society can rise above mentality. ‘’As a nation, there was the need for mutual respect between the two dominant religions. Deborah was angry that  Muslims were sending religious messages to the class group. She reacted to the point of being accused of blasphemy. “The Muslims in the same group were not patient enough until this inhuman act was carried out. “The realisation of mutual respect for each other would make us accept that Christians are living in Saudi Arabia and Muslims are living in Europe collectively.” Johnson Wisdom, a  400-Level FUOYE student said: ‘’I feel Nigeria as a country should have gone past religious discrimination. It is  against protection of human right. It is  against our morals/values. It is against our constitution, it’s against our culture. “It should not be encouraged. It is an enemy of civilisation. May this country know peace and unity. “The government should act according to the  constitution and  ensure the protection of all citizens irrespective of religion or ethnic group and deal with perpetrators.” A UNILAG student who craved anonymity said:” Peaceful coexistence is almost impossible when there is no similarity,  in any aspect of life with the northerners. Educational system,  legal system, marriage system language, duties and cultural practices; none are the same or even alike.” CAN condemns killing, seeks justice Meanwhile, the Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, has condemned the killing of Deborah and called on the Federal Government to investigate the murder and “swiftly bring perpetrators to justice”. In a statement entitled: ‘Deborah’s Killers Must Be Brought To Book’, CAN’s  General Secretary, Joseph Bade Daramola, described killing for any God as ungodly, satanic, foolish, reprehensible, and unacceptable. He warned the government and the security agencies against treating perpetrators of such dastardly acts with kid gloves. The statement reads:  “The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) condemns in strong terms the gruesome murder of a Christian, 200-Level student of Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto, Deborah Samuel by some extremist fellow students on alleged blasphemy. ‘’The unlawful and dastardly action of the perpetrators must not only be condemned by all right-thinking people but the security operatives must fish them out, and prosecute them as is expected of them.   “It is the failure of the security agencies and the government to rise to such criminalities in the past that gave birth to terrorists and bandits. And as long as the State fails to bring these beasts and criminals amidst us to book, society will continue to be their killing fields.   “We acknowledge the swift reaction of His Eminence, Sultan of Sokoto, Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar III who not only condemned the criminal and religious intolerant action but called on the security agencies to bring the perpetrators to justice. We expect that the State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, would ensure that the matter is not swept under the carpet, as it was before.   “Killing for any God in the name of blasphemy is ungodly, satanic, foolish, reprehensible, and unacceptable. This is not a Stone Age and Nigeria is not the Banana Republic. Nigeria remains a non-religious State where no religion is supreme to the other.   “We acknowledge and commend the restraint of the Christian students of the College who refused to embrace self-help and reprisal attacks on those who murdered their colleague. It is our prayer that those vampires in religious garments will not push the country to a religious war. This is why both the government and the security agencies must stop treating them with kid gloves. Enough is enough”.