The Nasarawa State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has adopted the list of delegates previously elected at the ward, local government, state and national congresses of the party for the forthcoming primary election of the party. Speaking during a stakeholders meeting at the Government House Lafia, Governor Sule explained that it has become expedient to adopt the delegates produced during the last congresses of the party because of the constraints of time, as well as ensuring unity and peace within the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. He appealed to critical stakeholders and members of the APC in the state to accept this decision in good faith. “There is no way you will conduct another exercise and there will be no issues. “But because it was a decision we have taken even before today, it wasn’t something that was even done here in the government house, we actually allowed various stakeholders at the various constituencies to go out and carry out the exercise,” he explained.   Farmers in Kaduna threaten to carry arms over incessant…     FHA disowns Kpokpogiri, as FCTA pulls down his Abuja mansion     Woman bag 7 years for trafficking in Makurdi   Having come into office through a fair and transparent primary election, the governor said he cannot turn his back on the same process. He thanked the state working committee of the party for accepting to hold the caucus meeting at the government house, as well as other stakeholders for attending the meeting He explained that other critical stakeholders, such as the national chairman of the APC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu and immediate past governor of the State, Senator Umaru Tanko Al-Makura have all agreed with the decision taken by the party. Speaking earlier, state APC chairman John Mamman, said the meeting was convened for the caucus to deliberate on important decisions that will guide the party towards the conduct of the scheduled primary election. He assured that no aspirant will be elected as candidate of the party at the primary elections, stressing that a level playing field will be provided for the aspirants to prove their worth, competence and popularity before delegates.