Martell, the oldest of the great Cognac houses, debuts the next chapter of its “Be The Standout Swift” campaign with Afrobeats star and humanitarian, Davido. The latest visual installment of Martell’s ‘Be The Standout Swift’ campaign, titled “Standout Swift Story,” is designed to showcase the audacity of the Afrobeats superstar and shed light on what it means to challenge conventions and pave the path for those that follow. Martell, which is committed to driving positive change, celebrates those who boldly take on challenges to benefit many, instead of conforming to codes that favor a few. Drawing inspiration from this ethos and Davido’s legacy, Martell is looking to encourage people to stand out from the crowd and redefine conventions. According to Davido, his mission is to show the new generation that the possibilities are endless.   Anita Joseph criticises Nollywood ghost scenes     I’ll rather lick mud than propose to a man –…     Teni lambasts critics dictacting how to spend her money   ”My partnership with Martell is another opportunity to pay tribute to the legacy I have created with my music and community. “My hope is that the ‘Standout Swift Story’ inspires people to pave their path and challenge the status quo, not just for their benefit but for the benefit of those around them,” He said. For Martell, a Standout Swift is someone who seeks to open up doors for and within the communities around them. Paying homage to this expression and Davido’s mantra – ‘We Rise By Lifting Others’, the film also features members of Davido’s crew who have reached international prominence due to the superstar’s impact. Managing Director of Pernod Ricard Nigeria, Sola Oke said, “We have a deep understanding of the challenges being faced by the new generation hence, we remain passionate about driving positive change amongst them and the ‘Standout Swift’ campaign further mirrors our commitment to fulfilling this,” said Sola Oke, Martell’s legacy is shaped by audacity. The ‘Standout Swift Story’ celebrates the shared legacy between Davido and Jean Martell, who founded the great cognac house in 1715.