The Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Award (NHEA 2022) has called for nominations on the new categories. According to Dr. Shola Alabi, NHEA Project Coordinator, the  activities in the sector in the last three years had made the  introductions possible  following reviews. The categories, which fall under the Special Recognition and Special Awards, are the Most Outstanding Oncology Centre of the Year, the Most Responsive COVID-19 Testing Company of the Year, the Most Outstanding COVID-19 Consumables Manufacturer of the Year (Indigenous), the State with the Highest Percentage of COVID–19 Vaccinated Persons, the Most Outstanding Genomic Laboratory of the Year, and the State Government Health Insurance Scheme of the Year. The theme for NHEA 2022 is ‘’Innovative health care in the era of change.’’ NHEA Director of Research and Development, Dr. Enoma Alade, said: “It is important that nominators visit the award site to review the entry criteria for each category before making their nominations.”   Firm unveils product     Nordica achieves 100 successful fibroids treatment without…     ‘Duchess Hospital will reverse Nigeria’s N500b medical…   She, however, explained. Oncology facilities should be established and providing services for more than 12 months; accredited by  federal and state health authorities; providing two of either medical, radiological or surgical oncology services to the public; high patient volume above 100 patients per month; externally assessed quality of patient delivery; facility possesses an international certification of clinical quality; and has an established and functioning palliative care and end-of-life care system. For state government’s Health Insurance Scheme, it has to be open to state governments and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) that operate a programme seen to be committed to the universal health and coverage that reduces the amount of out-of-pocket spending. In addition, the number of new enrollees or percentage increase of new enrollees yearly; new health financing packages and models; geographic spread of enrollees within the state; and the percentage number of citizens registered with the state health insurance programme etc. The event, which holds June 24, last year, at Eko Hotel and Suites, Vistoria Island, Lagos is supported by organisations such as the Federal Ministry of Health, Nigeria Medical Association, Association of General Private Medical Practitioners of Nigeria, Healthcare Federation of Nigeria, and PharmAccess Foundation. The public can visit the award site www.nigeriahealthcareawards.com.ng/online-nominations-form/ to nominate. Nomination is expected to close on May 22. NHEA is organised by Global Health Project and Resources (GHPR), in collaboration with Anadach Group, United States.