The Sokoto Sultanate Council has condemned the lynching of a female student of Shehu Shagari College of Education (SSCOE) Sokoto. The student simply identified as Deborah, was killed on the college campus by colleagues, who alleged that she insulted Prophet Muhammad during an argument with schoolmates. The state government yesterday announced the closure of the institution over the incident. Commissioner for Information Isah Bajini Galadanchi told reporters that the state government had ordered security agencies to investigate the incident. Galadanchi said the government learnt of “the unfortunate incident that took place at the Shehu Shagari College of Education (SSCOE) Sokoto in which a student of the college lost her life. “The Government has ordered the immediate closure of the college. “Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal has directed the Ministry of Higher Education, and relevant security agencies in the state to commence investigations into the…incident and report back to the government.” Deborah was set ablaze by some male Muslim students of the college. The development triggered angry reactions from Nigerians, who lamented how some people could easily lose their conscience in the name of religion.   Police recover Ebonyi child sold for N355,000 in Anambra     Why president Buhari loves Dave Umahi, by Femi Adesina     Smugglers attack Customs, seize rifle   The Sultanate Council in a statement issued by its secretary, Sa’idu Mohammadu Maccido, called on security agencies to ensure that the perpetrators are brought to book. The council called on members of the public to remain calm and live peacefully with one another. The statement reads, “The Sultanate Council has learnt with dismay of the unfortunate happening at the Shehu Shagari College of Education, SSCOE Sokoto that led to the loss of life of a female student of the institution. “The Sultanate Council condemns the incident in its totality and has urged the security agencies to bring the perpetrators of the unjustifiable incident to justice.” Two persons have been arrested over the incident, police said yesterday. The police said the students forcibly removed the victim from the security room where she was hidden by the school authorities, killed and burnt her and the building. Videos on social media show men stoning and flogging a motionless body draped in red attire. Some footage also captured a raging fire as a man faced the camera, claiming that he killed and burnt her. The police command said the suspects in the viral video on Twitter would be apprehended soon, spokesman Sanusi Abubakar said in a statement.