Polaris Bank and the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) yesterday launched a N1 billion fund that will provide artisans operating in Lagos state with amenable funding to grow their businesses. At a media launch yesterday at LSETF office in Lagos, Executive Director, Lagos Business, Polaris Bank, Mr. Segun Opeke explained that the partnership with LSETF is aimed at providing the much-needed funding to create wealth and empower artisans and players within the MSME space in Lagos state who have been in business operation for a minimum of one year. He said Polaris Bank would be providing N500 million counterpart funding in the partnership while LSETF is providing the same amount; urging artisans in the state to take advantage of the facility. Executive Secretary of LSETF, Tejumola Abisoye said LSETF is working with the Lagos State Council of Tradesmen and Artisans and the Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment to make impact by ensuring it creates access to finance and sustainable job opportunities for artisans in Lagos State. “We are happy to partner with Polaris Bank in ensuring that this mandate is achieved, and we know that through this fund, thousands of artisan businesses across the state can become sustainable. At LSETF, we are open to more strategic partnerships to reduce unemployment by building the capacity and improving the productivity of Lagos residents. “We are working with Polaris Bank to grant this loan at a single digit of 9.5 per cent per annum. This is extremely important because we want it to be clear from day one that it is affordable. We still think it is the most affordable in the market that you can have access to at the moment,” Abisoye said.   New tech solution to halt capital flight     Customs set to introduce unified charges for vehicles     Manufacturers seek more investment in automotive sector   Explaining the process of accessing the artisans’ funds, the Group Head, Products and Market, Polaris Bank, Mrs. Adebimpe Ihekuna, said the scheme is highly subsidised at less than one per cent flat per month and artisans who wish to take advantage of the facility can complete an application form; provide proof of verifiable business location with evidence of tenancy and domiciliation of business account to Polaris Bank. Applicants are also to provide business plan among other friendly terms throughout the tenor of the facility. Ihekuna further explained that the scheme offers up to N5 million for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) to be able to purchase working equipment so that even as a cobbler, vulcanizer, a barbing or hairdressing salon owner or whatever business you do, you can create value which also becomes a platform to continue to provide more employment opportunities for the youth. Director of Programmes, LSETF, Omolara Adewumi, expressed appreciation to Polaris Bank for the collaboration and the gesture of coming on board as a financial partner. She noted the role MSMEs play in creating jobs and reducing poverty. “I believe the time for this kind of matching funds which focuses mainly on artisans in Lagos state is now and we know that this collaboration will be a successful one,” Adewumi said. She urged prospective applicants to visit any Polaris Bank branch, the liaison offices of LSETF to apply or apply online. Lagos State’s informal economy, under which artisans are categorised, is said to employ about 5.5 million people – about three-quarters of the state’s 7.5 million labour force – out of the country’s nearly 200 million people. The 5.5 million Lagos figure represents over 80 per cent of the population working in the informal sector, according to the International Monetary Fund (IMF).  Despite its evident potential, the informal economy is often faced with difficulties, one of which is the lack of access to finance.