The Petroleum Technology Training Fund (PTDF) has shortlisted over 8,000 candidates for its 2022/2023 Overseas Scholarship Scheme (OSS) selection interview. The scheme is part of its programme of action leading to the award of the Overseas Scholarship for the MSc/PhD category for the 2022/2023 academic session under its Strategic Partnerships with 18 Universities in the United Kingdom, Germany, France China and Malaysia. The purpose is to provide Nigerian students with the intellectual foundation and skill set needed to participate actively in Nigeria’s oil and gas industry at the conclusion of their studies abroad. Speaking with reporters at the venue in PTDF Tower, Abuja the Manager, Overseas Scholarship Scheme, Mr. Bello Mustapha, noted that 26,000 applicants had applied for the scholarship, although over 8,000 applied. He described the PTDF as an organisation saddled with the responsibility of building capacities, capability, technology manpower in the oil and gas industry and in line with the requirements of the mandate of the fund. He stressed that the overseas scholarship scheme is one of the flagship programme of the fund. “We’ve been doing this since 2000, we have been sponsoring a couple of Nigerians to go and study abroad in some of the best institutions in the world in Masters and PhD level.   PDP Primaries: Bauchi Deputy Speaker, two others lose Reps…     Presidential ambition: Emefiele withdraws suit against INEC,…     Lawyer floors Senator Akinyelure at PDP primary   “We are here for the 2022/2023 academic session, we have advertised the scholarship and we have called on people to apply, people have applied, over 26,000 people applied for the scholarship and over 8000 were selected to come and do the interviews,” he said. According to him, the interviews are always conducted in the six geo-political zones of the federation but owing to the insecurity in the South East, this year’s has been limited to five zones. He disclosed that the Fund is conducting the test in Abuja, Kaduna, Bauchi, Port Harcourt, and Ibadan. Mustapha noted that candidates from the South East could go for the interview in any centre in the other five zones. Asked how many candidates would emerge from the exercise, Mustapha noted that it depends on the available budget. He however recalled that last year, the PTDF awarded the scholarship to three MSc and four PhD students. On the criteria for the interview, he said the best students from the States are usually selected, stressing that there is always a concession for the oil producing states. The manager said because of the training, which commenced since year 2000, Nigerians are among the best experts one can find anywhere in the world.