The European security landscape is changing, and its changing rapidly. Sweden and Finland, two Scandinavian countries with a long history of wartime neutrality and non-participation in military alliances are seeking NATO membership. In the case of Sweden, it will be abandoning its more than 200 years of non-alignment that has been at the heart of its security doctrine and has defined its national identity. Finland’s president, Saulli Niinisto, announced his country’s decision to join the alliance last week Thursday, and Sweden followed suit in a matter of days. For Russia, this is, without doubt, a terrible outcome. The invasion of Ukraine has resulted in a security dilemma. Russia’s attempt to increase its security through an aggressive military action in a neighbouring state has only increased its insecurity. Of the 14 countries that share a border with Russia, five of them are already members of NATO. The addition of Finland, another country that borders Russia, only decreases its security. As expected, Russia has threatened retaliatory steps of a ‘military-technical’ nature if Finland becomes a NATO member. And in what appears to be a clear signal that the West is willing to look Russia in the eye and ignore its security interests, the United Kingdom pledged to come to the aid of Finland if it is attacked. The Nordic countries in NATO, Denmark, Iceland, and Norway have pledged support to both countries if they are attacked before their membership quest is realised. But, let us be clear, Russia’s ability to launch expeditionary actions against Finland in the short term are severely limited. Britain’s Admiral Sir Tony Radakin, Chief of the Defence Staff, recently said that 25% of Russia forces have been effectively taken out. Intelligence analysts have noted that the loss of military equipment by Russia in its ‘special military operation’ in Ukraine has been so great that it is unlikely to have the capacity to fight another war for years. In fact, intelligence reports suggest that Russia might be running out of some vital military equipment, including precision-guided missiles. It is not surprising that both Scandinavian countries, whose populations have previously rejected the idea of joining NATO for the fear of antagonising their nuclear-armed neighbour, are now willing to take this historic opportunity to guarantee their security. Yet, while ascension provides security to both countries in the short-term, is NATO’s article 5 the watertight guarantee it is often portrayed as? The validity of article 5 as a collective security mechanism and a serious security guarantee is rarely questioned. Indeed, I admit that I have previously shown unquestioned deference to article 5 and what it represents. In an interview on TVC news last month, I had insisted that article 5 provided such a powerful security covering for Finland and Sweden that Russia would not even dare attack both countries once they are members of NATO.  And while that analysis is not invalid given the current state of Russia’s military and economy, I am not convinced that article 5 would serve Finland or Sweden’s long-time security interest.  Unlike Sweden, Finland’s neutrality during the Cold War was not by choice. In 1948, it signed a bilateral treaty of Friendship, Cooperation, and Mutual Assistance with the USSR that enforced neutrality in the emerging Cold War. The terms of the treaty required that Finland ensures that its territory is not used as a staging post for attacks against the Soviets if war broke out between the West and the USSR. Indeed, it was concerns about the vulnerability of Leningrad (now St Petersburg) to attacks from Finnish territory that primarily drove the Soviets’ invasion of Finland in 1939. For Russia, that threat to St Petersburg, Putin’s birthplace, has now re-emerged—and this is my worry. Although Vladimir Putin has suggested that the decision to join NATO by both countries does not threaten Moscow directly, but take his statement with a pinch of salt. Afterall, the former spy is a master in subterfuge. He will bid his time. When Russia rebuilds after the war with Ukraine (and it will), do not be surprised if Russia revisits this fundamental threat to its national security.   Gregorians are not the only champions     Still on Osun governorship election     Benue Catholic Church suspends priest over partisan politics   And if Putin doesn’t, there are more radical individuals in the corridor of power in the Kremlin—any of them could be Russia’s leader after Putin’s exit. One prominent name is Nikolai Patrushev, a former KGB operative and the Secretary of Russia’s National Security Council. Patrushev replaced Putin as head of the FSB and led the intelligence agency from 1999 to 2008. He is one of Putin’s closest friends and considered one of the most hawkish of Putin loyalists. It was Patrushev who authorised the 2006 poisoning of Alexander Litvinenko in London. Patrushev has been quoted saying that he believes that the US’s “concrete goal” is the break-up of Russia.  Another is Putin ally, Aleksey Zhuravlyov, who recently suggested that if Finland joins NATO, then it is legitimate to question its continued existence.  Zhuravlyov insisted that “the Finns in general should be grateful to Russia for their statehood, for the fact that Finland exists as a country”. Readers would recall that this is reminiscent of the revisionist sentiment that Putin extended last summer on Ukraine’s claim to sovereignty. The Russian president wrote a 7,000-word essay on the historical unity of Russians and Ukrainians to show why Ukraine couldn’t be an independent state, free from Russian influence. While Zhuravlyov and his ilk may be dismissed as sabre rattlers in the interim, the sentiments they hold regarding the threats they believe these recent events constitute to Russia’s security are widely shared. My argument is if Putin or a more ultranationalist leader revisits the ‘Finnish problem’ and credibly threatens the use of nuclear weapons to bring Finland into its sphere of influence, would the UK risk the complete destruction of London to fulfil its obligations under article 5? Would the United States be willing to sacrifice New York in order to protect Helsinki? Article 5 or not, I am convinced that no western leader could ever justify making such a call to the electorate. Unless a state believes its continued existence is in peril, it is difficult to imagine that anyone would risk a nuclear war that no one will win. Indeed, academic research supports my argument. Research have shown that defence pacts and military alliance obligations are more often violated than upheld. For instance, from the 1800s to 1945, states only honoured their alliance commitments 66% of the time but that compliance rate has dropped further to 22% since the end of World War 2. Clearly, states have found a new willingness to shirk treaty responsibilities. NATO’s article 5 may have been triggered in response to the 9/11 attacks, but Russia is not Afghanistan. The treaty obligation might be valuable in deterring conventional wars, but would likely falter in the presence of a credible nuclear threat.