Nollywood stars have been thrown into mourning following the demise of their colleague, Osmond Gbadebo on Monday. His death was announced by veteran actress, Fausat Balogun aka Madam Saje via her Instagram page in the wee hours of Tuesday. She posted a photo of a candle light in the dark with an accompanying caption that reads: “Good night Osmond.” Another of the deceased’s colleague, Afeez Owo, used the opportunity to admonish individuals to live right as death could come calling at any time. He shared screenshots of thought-provoking quotes which read: “It was early morning at four when death knocked upon your bedroom door. “Who is there? The sleeping one cried. Im Malakul Maut (Angel of Death), let me inside. At once, the man began to shiver, as one sweating in deady fever. “Please go away, O Angel of Death! Leave me alone; I’m not ready yet. He shouted to his sleeping wife, “Don’t let him take away my life. “He replied: There is no time for you to repent, I’ll take your soul for which I am sent. The ending however, is very sad.   Why I can’t be angry with my husband for long-Khafi      Actress Stephanie Linus welcomes second child     Firm thrills guests at 2022 AMVCA   “Eventually, the man became mad. With a cry, he jumped out of bed and suddenly, he fell down dead. “O Reader! Take moral from here. You never know, your end may be near. Change your living and make amends. For heaven, on your deeds depends.” Owo captioned the post: “Iku lopin irin Ajo eda laye”. Fabiyi shared a photo eulogising the late Gbadebo, as he bade him farewell. “So so sad and a deep PAINFUL LOSS, OSMOND GBADEBO. You were a fighter and safe to say you have GONE TO REST. Ever jovial, ever supportive, ever friendly. Rest in Peace & Power,” Fabiyi wrote. Laide Bakare, mourning the deceased shared a video which showed both of them in a playful mood and noted same was recorded only few days ago. “Hmmmmm sad! Sad!! Sad!!!! This was just four days ago and today hearing you are no more, it’s indeed a Big shocker, Rip Osmond. He was full of life till last breath”, she wrote. Although, there was no mention of the cause of death, however, according to the video which surfaced online few days before his demise, the once chubby Gbadebo had greatly emaciated. He was famous for movies such as “Edunjobi”, “Ewon Ife”, “Queen Lateefat”, “Hired Killer” and several others.