Perhaps, the biggest news coming out of the Dankaro House in Abuja is the decision to extend the period set out by the Nigerian authorities to recruit a new foreign Technical Adviser for the Super Eagles. In the past, this simple exercise has been shrouded in ungodly secrecy such as so many insinuations surrounding the emergence of previous Technical Advisers. Indeed, go-betweens involved in the recruitment of past Technical Advisers were fingered in sharp practices. These middlemen turned out to be agents of foreign clubs whose boys became the benchmark for getting invitations to the Super Eagles. You either belonged or got chopped off. Previously, the federation’s chiefs openly participated in the search for a new manager for the Eagles with such members turning against each other in which of their choices should be given the job. Under this chaotic setting, the manager who belongs to the group where more influential members of the federation are gets the job. What it means is that the process for the search has been compromised, leaving the task of getting a tested manager on the lurch. The tables’ shenanigans come to the fore when the manager churns out average results which would lead to his eventual sack. Money spent on the process goes down the drain, Super Eagles’ world ranking nose-dives and the game in the country is left on its knees gasping for breath. Time was when some wise men were taken to England to talk with top coaches for the Eagles. This process threw up the White Witchdoctor Phillipe Troussier who qualified Nigeria for the World Cup. But a cantankerous sports minister sent him packing for daring to break the members of the Dream Team One due to some of the stars’ inability to get a starting line role. The minister didn’t allow the flamboyant White Witchdoctor to reform the Eagles insisting then that the Frenchman’s choice of the 3-5-2 system was archaic. Need I waste space in listing successful clubs and countries who play the 3-5-2 formation to date? How can we forget the drama where managers were invited to Abuja for the Super Eagles job. One of them, an England international alleged that they asked him to give a bribe if he wanted the job. The English star couldn’t mention any name. People looked the other way because of the reputation of members of the committee. How can we forget how journeyman, Bora the manager who had taken five countries to the World Cup or is it the Swede who held sway from the Eagles bench in South Africa in 2010? There isn’t any problem with being agents but such agents should have the capacity to identify good talents and expose them to bigger clubs. However, the new manager mustn’t be seen to perform the role of an agent while functioning as the manager of the Super Eagles. The ripple effect of this kind of unholy arrangement is that any new discovery loses his position on spurious grounds if he is playing in positions where the manager has an interest. This conflict of interest on the part of the manager is one of the reasons why there is friction between the big stars who dare to question the presence of the better players around the country. Unfortunately, the federation chieftains who are neck-deep in the sale of players’ rackets align with the mercantile managers. In no time such a big player is tagged as undisciplined and a bad influence in the dressing room and camp. What our federation men don’t understand is that our players are exposed to quality coaches whose work ethics help to shape their careers in their different clubs. It is, therefore very easy for them to recognise a good manager during training sessions. It is the reason our players report to camp at their leisure, knowing that the journeymen managers in the Super Eagles need them more than they need him. Journeymen are sold to us as coaches with experience and good knowledge of African football. Their handlers tell us that these journeymen would be paying their assistants with their wages but that they would only be paid allowances and match bonuses. What these handlers don’t say is how many matches would we be playing preparatory to big matches? So, in strict terms, it translates to peanuts that the Head Coach would be paying to his assistants which is never divulged. These assistants are usually specialists in one area of the game.  What it means in strict terms is that they are usually hired by clubs for purpose of solving problems in smaller or bigger clubs for a fee depending on their pedigree in such areas. What these assistants do is to relegate the Nigerians in the technical crew to mere watchers of training sessions. The pain in this arrangement is that you don’t really have fantastic assistants to necessitate their involvement in the Super Eagles’ preparations. What does it say to us that only Johannes Bonfrere was applauded among the various foreign assistants by the players? It didn’t shock me to read that the federation didn’t interview the coaches they claimed to have interacted with within the course of picking the three shortlisted coaches. What they did was to do an evaluation of the coaches based on their matches played before scoring them. Only in Nigeria would that happen in an era where the world is a global village – with one touch at the press of your computer or even on your telephone you can get any information that you want. Of course, the sports minister Sunday Dare rejected the armchair judgment, insisting that the right thing be done. Today, it can be said on tape, on zoom e.t.c that the federation talked to the six shortlisted coaches, and got their views on what Nigeria was offering. One of them wasn’t interested in the job. Two of them thought otherwise while three listened pending another round of sessions held on Thursday night via zoom.   Knocks trail Nigeria’s withdrawal from global…     2023: APC is party to beat Plateau – Biggs     Ogun guber: Abiodun, Akinlade renew hostilities in APC   Super Eagles’ genuine rebuilding would start with the two international friendlies against Ecuador and Mexico in New Jersey on May 29 and June 2, with eight local league players. The games serve as the new direction for our football which for now isn’t worried about the results of games played, but about the platform given to the home-grown players to rub shoulders with the big boys. There is also a change of mentality of the local league players to work harder knowing that the opportunity to play in the US or Europe could be theirs in future matches. Even the European scout who watch these matches could walk up to them to discuss their career path one-on-one instead of going through shylock agents who would sell them into slavery. Indeed, the transparent manner in which the recruitment of a foreign manager is being handled raised the hope that whoever emerges would be worth the trouble. However, competent Nigerian coaches should be attached to the new man with strict instructions to him that these Nigerians would replace him at the expiration of his contract. That way the foreign coach would respect the local coaches during his tenure.   One of my younger brothers Ejemai is 52 years old today. Our semblance is so striking that many of his friends ask me politely if I’m Ejemai’s brother. I always tell them that Ejemai is my younger brother.  The other poser between Ejemai and I bothers on which one of us is the most popular? I smile and move on. My four brothers are great guys. But Ejemai is outstanding. He can deprive himself of anything to make you happy. Ejemai is in pain but has soldiered on like the Trojan that he is. Ejemai, God is your strength. Ejemai is the king of boys. A likeable person whose friends love him from the depth of their hearts. He tells everyone who cares to listen that he is a Chief and we accept. Ejesco, enjoy your day with your adorable wife Lizzy. Pain in my heart as I write this, I feel your pains. No, let me stop. My eyes are welled with tears. Don’t let me spoil your day. Happy birthday Chief Ejemai, a man for all seasons.