Senator Olamilekan Adeola Solomon represents Lagos West Senatorial District of Lagos State at the National Assembly. The Yewa, Ogun State-born politician is also the chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance. He recently declared his intention to run for the senatorial seat of Ogun West Senatorial District in the 2023 election. He spoke with ‘Dare Odufowokan, Assistant Editor, on his ambition and other issues. Excerpts. THERE is so much talk about your aspiration to represent Ogun West Senatorial District in the Senate in 2023. Why are you moving from Lagos to Ogun? I will want to state this very clearly, I am not from Lagos. Yes, I have been in Lagos all these while and I currently represent the wonderful people of Lagos West Senatorial District. But I am from Ogun State. I am from Yewa in Ogun West Senatorial District and my roots are in Pahi, Ago Isaga. I was a two term member of the Lagos State House of Assembly. I was a member of the House of Representatives and currently in my second term in the Senate. Now, I have decided to return back home and serve my people in Ogun West Senatorial District of Ogun State. I am returning to my roots. The decision to go back home and serve my people didn’t start overnight, contrary to claims in some quarters. It is the outcome of something that has been on for over twelve to fifteen years. And when I took that decision to go back home, it was not borne out of selfish interest or selfish end. It is a decision I took because of my people. I am telling you sincerely that I am on this mission because of the sorry state of things in my area. I look at the situation in Ogun West where I hail from and decided that I need to go back home. And that is what I am doing. I want to say this I am saying all these for no other reason that the fact that I believe that I am taking a major decision and expectedly, people are bound to ask questions and I must provide answers as a servant of the people that I am. And when such a major event is to happen, all relevant stakeholders must be carried along. And I believe that you, as a member of the fourth estate of the realm, the media, deserve the right to be dutifully informed. But many people have adduced various reasons to your decision to shift base from Lagos state to Ogun state. Like I said, people will say and write a lot of things about what I am doing going forward. And if you have not had the opportunity of sitting with me to discuss the development, you may not know the truth from the lies. So, I am explaining to you, in all sincerity, the idea behind what is now known as West to West. It is simply my decision to go back home and serve my people. It is informed by my desire to use the many experiences I have garnered playing politics in Lagos and representing my people here to liberate Ogun West Senatorial District by contesting for the senatorial seat in 2023. I have been moving round talking to people about the development because I believe when people have the opportunity of hearing from me directly, when they hear anything different, they will be able to compare and contrast so as to establish the truth. What is your take on the quest of Governor Dapo Abiodun for a second term on the platform of the ruling APC? I am for the second term of Governor Dapo Abiodun. I am not going to Ogun state to go and contest for governorship of the state in 2023. I am going back to Ogun state to contest for the senatorial seat of Ogun West Senatorial District. That is what I am contesting for. I am not against the governor who in my opinion is doing well with the task of governing the state. I cannot find any reason why he shouldn’t be given a second term and I am sure our party leaders and members are pleased with him too. I am determined to contest and win the Ogun West Senatorial seat now more than ever before. I strongly believe and feel that there is need for me to do this now at this point in time. My first attempt to return back to Ogun West from Lagos was in 2012. That was the build up to my attempt to contest for the senate seat of the district in the 2015 general elections. But the then governor had another agenda. So, it was decided that I should return to Lagos. I returned to Lagos and contested the senatorial seat of Lagos West Senatorial District, which was given to me by our leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to run as Senator.    Immediately I came in as the Senator of Lagos West, I resumed my attempt to return back to Ogun state. After two years, I thought of contesting the governorship of my state. So I moved round the people and made effort to prepare their minds for the big one. But at the end of the day, Asiwaju Tinubu was made the chairman of the National Reconciliation Committee of our party and he prevailed on me that, to make reconciliation in Ogun state easy, I should return to Lagos once again and allow others to take the slots in Ogun state. I returned and won a second term to the Senate, representing the good people of Lagos West Senatorial District in the National Assembly. That is my current position till date. There are those who are making references to those attempts and saying you are likely to once again abandon this quest of liberation and return to Lagos State to seek reelection.   Nigeria, Maldives open new frontiers for tourism development     Eulogies as first African Harvard graduate goes home     Nigeria accounts for 88 percent of global female genital…   I am not returning to Lagos for politics ever again. I told you earlier, I am more resolute that ever to change the narrative in Ogun West. Our areas have suffered backwardness enough and we need to urgently change the situation. My eyes are on the goal and I am confident that I will get it done this time around. So for those deceiving themselves that they can chase me back by blackmailing me and spreading falsehood about me, they better get serious. I am not leaving. And I am grateful to the good people of Ogun West for the warm reception they have always given me. Go round the towns in Yewaland and see whether it is true Yayi is popular and loved or not. Hundreds of Baales recently came together to endorse my aspirations. Youths have been openly supporting my ambition. Women groups and even traditional rulers are daily throwing their weight behind me. They are doing all these on their own without me asking them to. They see what is possible with me as their Senator because even while not representing them yet, we have made several efforts to touch their lives and make Ogun West a better place. That is why I am calling on my critics to look beyond the sentimental issues of who is he? Where is he coming from? When did he join us? etc and join me to change the narratives in Ogun West. What special things do you think the Senatorial District stand to gain from you representing them in 2023? By the grace of God, I am a ranking Senator who is also holding a very important position in the National Assembly currently. The senate is one place where a new comer will have to spend a long time learning the ropes. At least, a new Senator will learn for three years before he can understand the intrigues and the business of representation. But in my case, I don’t have to do that. I am already entrenched in the system. If I am now the Senator of Ogun West in 2023, the district will benefit immensely from my status within and outside the chamber as a ranking Senator. And that kind of benefit is what Ogun West needs now to facilitate development and recognition. Our people deserve all the good things we can bring to them. We must put sentiments aside and think of the greater good. Who can best do the job? Who can bring the most and the best dividends? Those should be our concerns. What Ogun West needs now is a strong leader. The area is hugely marginalized in the scheme of things within and outside the state. These are some of the things urging me on to return home and liberate my people. There are three senatorial districts in Ogun state. Since creation, the state is over forty years now, only two of the three have been rotating the governorship. Ogun West is the odd one out that has never produced a governor. On the other hand, if we decide not to talk of senatorial districts, there are four divisions in the state likewise. Three of these divisions have been producing the governors of the state since the creation of the state. Yewa division, which incidentally is Ogun West Senatorial District, is the one left out. Yewa division has never ruled Ogun state. And people outside our area see us as people who cannot agree together and move in a direction, We can change such belief if we go out with a strong leader who will chart a new and profitable direction for us to tread. The Senator we need is that man with the right connection and position. I am strong stakeholder in the current political arrangement in the country, thanks to the people of Lagos West who supported me all along to get to this stage. It is that wealth of experience and contacts that I want to use to serve my people as their Senator. But why is there so much tension over your aspiration in Ogun West given that you claim not to be against anybody? I will not say there is tension. Go to the towns and villages of Ogun West and check where this tension you talk about is. It is those who are scared of political contests that are having tension. The people are peacefully and eagerly waiting for the chances to give their nod and vote for me. I keep saying I am ready for any form of primary election. I am not saying the ticket should be handed to me arbitrarily. No, I am prepared to emerge as the winner of a primary election. It is those who are afraid that are writing petitions and seeking ways of ensuring I don’t participate in the process. On what premise do they want me to be excluded from the race? Is my aspiration against the constitution? No. Is my ambition contrary to any provision of the party’s constitution? No. So, on what premise are they seeking my disqualification? Some people speak of moral reasons and I ask what moral reasons do they have? I didn’t just wake up overnight to say I want to be Senator. This is a process that has been on for many years. I have been around and I have related with my people. I know the problems and the solutions and that is why I am offering myself to serve. I have been blackmailed and battered by my opponents just because they feel I am set for the goal. I am equally prepared. I know it will come to all these and I am well prepared. I cannot and will not be intimidated. How confident are you of victory in the race? In all modesty, I want to say that there is no election I will contest in the area that I will not win, especially within the APC. I have been a progressive all my life. My opponents are not part of our structures in APC. They have their roots largely in the conservative party. So, it will be difficult for them to defeat me. I will win the primary election whichever way it is done. And I will go on to win the general election by the grace of God. It is the desire of the people that I represent them. So, I am confident of victory.