The member representing Ado-Odo Ota Federal Constituency of Ogun State Jimoh Ojugbele has warned against the cancellation of the primary election of the constituency. In a statement, Ojugbele who was declared winner of the primary election held at the Alamuwa Grammer School, said aggrieved aspirants have a right to approach the Appeal panel with their complaints. He said: “it is elementary that once a candidate had emerged from an election which was conducted and concluded as in the instant case, an aggrieved aspirant can only challenge the outcome of such election before the APPEAL COMMITTEE inaugurated by the National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress. “Any attempt to conduct an election not sanctioned by the National Working Committee after it has been heard and decided by the Appeal committee will only amount to an exercise in futility and a NULLITY.” While asking his supporters to remain calm and law abiding, the lawmaker expressed appreciation to all delegates who took part in the primary election.   Tambuwal: What manner of hero?     Senator Ubah wins YPP’s return ticket     What APC should learn from PDP convention   He said the primaries commenced with accreditation of delegates who later voted for the aspirant of their choice, adding that “intimidation and an attempt to disrupt the peaceful exercise by some disgruntled elements and street urchins sponsored by one of the aspirants who convincingly believed that the outcome of the election won’t be in his favor only delayed the exercise for few minutes before normalcy was restored by security agents on duty. “It is on record that election was conducted, votes were counted, and result was announced by the assigned umpire at the same venue before all agents and I was declared the WINNER. “The request for a re-run by an aspirant who lost an election because he is not popular is baseless, laughable and can best be imagined as such call is unfounded in law and a flagrant disregard to the party constitution. “The primaries conducted at Alamuwa Grammar School by the assigned returning officer, Tunji Ibitokun was without any controversy and was done in substantial compliance with the party constitution, electoral guidelines and Electoral Act.” According to the final results as announced by Tunji Ibitokun, Hon. Ojugbele scored 41 votes out of the 43 accredited delegates and Hon. Tunji Akinosi had two votes.