The father of the 18-year-old boy, who allegedly died after engaging in money rituals performed by one Alfa AbdulRasaq Araokanmi, has urged the police authorities to arrest the fleeing Muslim cleric and prosecute him for murder. The Nation had reported on Saturday, April 9, 2022, how the deceased teenager, Peter Albert, was introduced to Alfa Araokanmi for money-making rituals by one of his friends, an 18-year-old identified simply as David, after unsuccessful rounds in internet scams. The money ritual, however, went awry when he returned home about three weeks ago panting and feeling weak. Before his death moments later, Peter reportedly explained all that transpired between him and Araokanmi to his father and even urged him to check his mobile phone for the exchanges between him and the cleric on Whatsapp. It was said that Alfa Araokanmi has since bolted without a trace. In the petition to the Commander of Ota Area Command of Ogun State Police Command, Peter’s distraught father, Mr. Tayo Albert, alleged that Araokanmi demanded the sum of 200,000 as fee for the money ritual concoction and warned his son against making any part payment, threatening him with untimely death if he paid him in bits.   Scandal rocks quarantine centre as stranded deportees cough…     How marabout duped two sisters of N5.4m to exorcise marine…     Gov. Sani-Bello wins APC Niger North senatorial ticket   He claimed that his son ran mad shortly after he underwent the money rituals performed on him by Alfa Araokanmi. The petition dated March 16 and written by Albert’s lawyer, Adewale Ademola Ige, reads in part: “The said Alfa Abdulrasaq (Araokanmi) demanded the sum of N200,000 to prepare a concoction and gave it to Mr. Peter Albert to drink, that it would solve all his poverty in this world. “The said Alfa Abadulrasaq (Araokanmi) asked the late Mr. Peter to bring the money in full, (and that) any part payment would lead to his untimely death.” He stated further that his son ran mad before he eventually died in Alfa Araokanmi’s hands. “The late Mr. Peter Albert took the medicine and ran mad. But before his madness, he confessed that he was unable to complete the payment of the sum of N200,000 (and that) he saw Alfa Abdulrasaq Araokanmi with arms and ammunition which he eventually used on him that led to his death on the 6th of March, 2022,” The petition stated that Albert further discovered what happened between his son and the fleeing Muslim cleric when he checked his son’s phone and went through his Whatsapp conversations. “The father of the late Peter Albert went through the handset of his late son and discovered all the conversations regarding the death of his son in the hands of Alfa Abdulrasaq (Araokanmi),” the petition added.