A coalition of church founders and ministers under the auspices of the Integrity Ministers International Ministry incorporated (IMIM), yesterday at a prayer crusade formally unveiled Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as God’s choice for the 2023 presidential elections. Addressing a mammoth crowd at the headquarters of IMIM at the Ikorodu axis of Lagos, Bishop Kayode Williams, Founder and Vice President of IMIM, revealed that the divine, prophetic message from God indicates that Tinubu, the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is the right person to lead the country come 2023.   APC Convention: Media subcommittee denies spending N800m on…     2023: Ayade’s Commissioners, aides, LG bosses jostle for…     2023: MASSOB for Yahaya Bello, not Igbo presidency –…   According to him, God’s mandate to IMIM is to pray for the wellbeing of the country including its leadership. “It is true we’re all suffering now. But God has revealed to us that His anointed choice for the 2023 is Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. He will turn around the fortunes of the country for good, so saith the Lord,” Williams stressed. Bishop Williams said the successful emergence of Tinubu in the forthcoming presidential elections was certain according to God’s decree, even as he urged Nigerians “to wait on Lord for God’s promise never fails.” Speaking earlier, President of the IMIM, Hon. Justie Oluawaseun Shogbola, a retired Justice of the National Industrial Court, in her opening remarks said, “The important prayer Nigeria by the IMIM is to fulfill God’s mandate to pray for the nation, Nigeria and unveil the prophetic, divine message. Thus sait the Lord! God has chosen and anointed a president for Nigeria in the 2023 elections. Rev. Segun Akanbi, executive member of IMIM, while praying for the leadership of the country, said, “Tinubu is the sun that will shine brightest amongst the clouds. We pray for God’s guidance and protection for Tinubu.” The highpoint of the occasion was the official unveiling of Tinubu’s poster by the IMIM to the public. Other clergies at the event were Rt. Rev. Dr. James Famofo, oldest chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria southwest chapter, Apostle Dr. Johnson Ade Olabode, founder and President of the Love of Jesus Evangelical Ministries (LOJEM Inc.) and Rev. Segun Ilesanmi among others.