Twenty-Seventh May, my heart goes out to some girls aged 18 or younger in some Lagos schools. One of them was in JSS 3 when she stopped school. She was a brilliant girl from my interaction with her. She was caught in a web of peer group, had a boyfriend in the block of flats opposite where she lived as a house girl with her madam, a teacher in another school. She  used to sneak out at night to the next flat, often contracted STD from her boyfriend and was sent back to the village, to be re-united with her mother who has other children by different men. I will call her Girl E. I wish to call another girl Girl  G. Her story is trending in an extended family which does not yet know what to do about her. What is coming to light is that she and her father had been seeing for some time before she was 19. Father and daughter were lucky the chicken did not come home to roost before now. Then, in September last year, they saw again, and the feathers flew this time. She was unable to register for the WAEC examination last September, and she missed JAMB examination of two weeks ago. I will return to the story of Girl G.   Deborah Friday I advisedly mention the name of this girl because she has gone over. Deborah was an S S 1 student of Girls High School, Iyana-Ipaja, Lagos State until her death about March this year. She was suffering from sickle cell anaemia. Udeme Edet James who has a way of detecting sicklers was in the school counsellor’s office in respect of her niece. One of Deborah’s classmates brought her to the counsellor’s office. She was weak, and her eyes were sunken. Udeme touched her palms. They were dry and seemingly lifeless. Udeme, who had some ideas about some nutritional supplements which could help the condition, gave the counsellor her telephone number which the other woman was to give Deborah’s mother. Udeme left. The counsellor called Deborah’s mother to come for her. Deborah went home and took time off school. She returned to school in time for the JSS3 exam not necessarily looking better, but passed the examinations nonetheless. She resumed SS 1 with her classmates last  September. She did not look a healthy girl. Then, one Friday, unknown to her and to them, it was her last outing with them. She told stories of one of her younger brothers. She said he often troubled her, making her angry sometimes and happy at other times. They all laughed it over. Then, she complained that she was feeling dizzy. Her friends prepared a place in the classroom for her to lay and rest. After school, they helped her home. That was on a Friday. On Monday, she was absent from school. On Tuesday, she died!   Deboarah’s death Deborah’s death raises many questions about school quality and the foolishness of parents and society to believe that, in our part of the world, the burden of education should fall 100 percent on the shoulders of government. We can separate the wheat from the chaff of our thoughts if we know a little more than we probably know today about why the human specie of creation is on earth. There was no government present when I, for example, was created , and sent to this earth for a purpose. My creation through grace was at my own request. This is difficult for many people to understand. If they do, they would realise that everyone on earth in this regard has a primary responsibility for his or her life on earth. The government can only give a supportive hand as a true friend. Before the government comes parents. When they engage in the procreative act, they make a prayer for a soul or souls to be sent to them that they will look after on earth on behalf of their creator. So, parents cannot abdicate this responsibility to the government which did not make the request for souls to come to this earth. So, they must be willing to participate in the funding of the education of their children. It is difficult to know how many children are in Lagos State High School. But, according to a 2017 school census, “there are 349 junior secondary schools and 322 senior secondary schools”, in which only three out of 10 children who enrol in the junior school system make it to the final class of the senior school system. The enrolment is 337,724 for the junior school and 229,980 for the senior. There may be more than two million children out of the school system. The same reason children are dropping out of school may be the reason Deborah  Friday may have died. The schools are over populated, teachers are stressed and hardly have enough time for not only quality teaching but, also, for  paying keen attention to children’s well being. In Girl’s Senior High Schools, for example, there are eight arms of  SS1. In SS1c, there are about 70 girls. How can one teacher effectively teach them? There may be between 900 and 1,000 children in the school. How can one counsellor effectively attend to them all? If the lone counsellor has to attend to to 10 girls everyday, how effective can he or she be? Could the counsellor not have paid more than passing attention to the case of Deborah Friday if she had fewer cases on her hands every day? Could she not have personally followed up the help Udeme Edet James was offering? She could have visited Deborah’s parents at home to check if they had the wherewithal to look after her. If they are too poor to help their daughter, could the counsellor not have linked them with appropriate school management or government institution which could have helped? The possibility of help from outside the school system such as Udeme James’ could have offered may have been made available to this family. For she works in an alternative medicine services enterprise which counsels sickle cell-challenged persons and other categories of persons in search of help for their health. In sickle cell crisis, about five steps have to be taken to save the patient’s life. It is possible that these nutritional supplements which have caused the lives of many sickle cell anaemia challenged persons and improved their well being may have made a difference in the life of Deborah  Friday if she had access to them. Udeme Edet James may have been sent to her, providentially, and the school system may have failed to connect to her by not providing enough counsellors for  a large student population such as hers.   Issues in the proposed IHR amendment     Sambisa State House     The Jibrils: Hell in the spoken word (2)   This leads us back to the idea that the government alone cannot fund education and that our society may not be ripe yet for “free education “. There is money for “free education”, no doubt. But much of it is wasted on either corruption , overhead personnel costs in the civil service and other drain pipes. What would it cost parents to pay at least N1000 per term for the education of each child. If we assume there were about 600 children in school in 2018, and about 1 million children in school today, the school system will be enriched with N3000000000 from the N3000 every parent pays per child in one year. There will be such arguments against this suggestion, saying the economy is bad and poor families live below the breadline. But if we care to look well, we may discover these poor parents carry many expensive phones about, and “blow” money over social event. With a three billion naira oxygen bag elixir, more schools would be built, more teachers would be employed and paid better, unemployment will reduce, teaching would become more effective, especially where the budget accomodates assistant teachers and, above all, counselling would improve with about three or more counsellors in large schools. In Deborah Friday’s case, counsellors would have visited her at home and her case would have been reported to the government through the State Universal Basic Education board (SUBEE) which may have linked her to a doctor. Wouldn’t it have been better still to enrol children with the State Health Management Organisation (ILERAEKO), under group health insurance protection to which parents have to contribute their widow’s mites?   Four girls This is our final subject on State Girls High School in the light of overcrowding in classrooms, teacher overwork and ineffectiveness in the school system. The four girls are  SS 2 pupils. Because of overcrowding, the teacher’s gaze could not reach the back of the class. There they were, these four girls, skirts up or down, hands fiddling their neighbours. Their play time while teaching was going on abruptly ended when the teacher of SS1C walked by in the corridor. He sighted them from the corridor and stopped the teaching. He and their class teachers marched them to the principal. Their parents were told and invited to a meeting. The girls were good girls who were merely momentarily carried away by the fun world they heard of or read about in the social media and other media. Their parents were shocked, if not shamed. But the girls were fire crackers in their studies and went on to win scholarships from the Old Girls Association to study in any university of their choice! So, we cannot entirely blame their temporary fickleness on them without blaming, as well, a school system which made their idle minds become the devil’s workshop.   Girl E Back to our first guest. She was 18 in JSS3 last year. She fell in love , or so she thought she did, with a trader in the block of flats in which she lived with her guardian. They flirted earlier in her guardian’s flat before she returned from work, or she sneaked out to his flat in the dead of the night. One day, the guardian locked the door after Girl E had sneaked out, trapping her outside her flat. The guardian called her sister and gave her money to take Girl E to her mother in the village. But Girl E bolted on the way to the garage and ended up in a house far away to take refuge with one of her school friends who lived with a septugenerian. The septugenerian told her he couldn’t keep her and that she had to return home. By 8pm, he called her guardian who promised to come for her the next day.The septugenerian didn’t think that was right. What if she bolted again? So, he called her boyfriend who came by 11 for her. But he reached a deal with her guardian, a teacher. She was not to disrupt the education of Girl E. She should let the session end and send her back home, if she couldn’t forgive her. She did. Neither the septugenarian or Girl E’s school friend has been able to get in touch with Girl E in far away Akwa Ibom State to be sure she has not dropped out of school. Her boyfriend does not want to hear of her again. If all teeny boppers who, simply because they are flaming, believe they have become the centre stage of life learn a lesson or two from the story of Girl E, it is possible they will sheath their fire and make the pursuit of their “future” the priority occupation today.    Girl G She was an SS3 pupil of one of the schools on Baptist Academy grounds in Obanikoro, Lagos. A child from teenage “boy meet girl” relationship which failed to progress to marriage, Girl G lived with her mother for about two years in a Southsouth village before one of her aunt’s in Lagos took her up. Her mother went on to marry another man. Her father, too,  later married and had three more children in about three years. It must have been from about the age of 15 four years ago that Girl G and her father began carnal relationship, unknown to his wife and other members of the extended family. They lived in a single room in a face-to-face Obanikoro house. Girl G hardly left home and was always by her books. Everyone was proud of her as a studious girl who had nothing to do with the nuances of  her generation. No one knew that she has been sexually opened up. Sometime last year Girl G’s father took her along with him in a visit to their village where carnal relationship continued. By that time, her instincts had flared up, and she had begun to key into other men her age or a little older, especially the son of a pastor. Her pregnancy was detected early this year by her uncle in Lagos she began to live with after her father relocated to their village. When her father  learned that she was pregnant, he  sent for her. But members of her extended family in Lagos who, meanwhile, had heard her story, feared he may tamper with the pregnancy back home. He was  speaking from the two corners of the mouth. From one, he denies responsibility and, from the other, he seeks forgiveness from the family. Meanwhile, he has kept away from Lagos and from his daughter. Girl G is back at the home of her aunt who raised her from babyhood. Everyday, she lives in trauma, sad that her father would bring the condition upon her and then not only deny responsibility but abandon her as well. Many of her relations wonder why she failed to tell  her father before he got this far with her. Girl G said she always thought of what could be the fate of her young half siblings if she did and they had no father to look after them. Her stepmother barely made ends meet from her small hair dressing business. Now, there is a debate in the family: should Girl G’s baby, when it is born, be sent to an orphanage for someone to adopt him for her? Some family members say this would be cruel:no matter what, the baby has a right to know his or her mother and father. It should not matter that he or she would be the grand child of his or her father and the child of his or her sister. That would be the child’s fate. As for Girl G, other family members say not knowing where her child is or how he or she is faring may traumatise her entire existence. Those who want her to keep the baby may have the day. The question then would be how to raise money for maternity care, ante-natal care and funding other expenses, when the baby arrives.   Three out of 10 The foregoing tales of some school children in Lagos may explain why, according to a government report, only  three out of 10 children who enrol for school in JSS1 make it to SS3 and why only about one or two of those three progress to tertiary institutions. It is a sociological problem the  government, the school system, parents and sociologists may wish to find an answer for. It is a Children’s Day appeal by this column.