The Nigerian political space is literally buzzing with activities. The party primaries of the two biggest political parties, the All progressive Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have thrown up a lot of news, shocks and talking points. The horse-trading, the lobbying, the negotiations, the intrigues and permutations are all getting really very interesting. The power of the state governors more than ever before seems to be more evident. The lack of true internal party democracy, the power of self-preservation, the playing to the gallery by some politicians and the fact that as they say, in politics there are only permanent interests and no permanent enemies appear so glaring with the kind of politics that is being played out. The former governor of Anambra state, Mr. Peter Obi stirred the media space, both the orthodox and social media with his recent withdrawal from contesting for the presidential ticket under the PDP and his resignation from the party. From Abia state, the Minority leader of the 9th Senate Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe of the PDP had gone to contest for the governorship of the state but withdrew recently allegedly sighting displeasure along with some other aspirants in the party with the way the party primary was held. There are rumours that he is set to join the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) to seek the senatorial ticket to return to the Senate in 2023. There are accusations and counter accusations from some other candidates across party lines who have expressed displeasure at the lack of internal party democracy in the two political parties under review. The former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu withdrew from the Enugu governorship race almost on the eve of the party primary in the state leaving the field to the Enugu East zone that has produced the party flag bearer. There are rumours and allegations that the present governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi  from Enugu North fell to the pressure of those he allegedly owes his own emergence as governor, the two former governors of Enugu state from that zone. From Rivers state, Senator Magnus Abe of the APC who was an aspirant to the governorship seat there has threatened to challenge the party primaries in court because he feels the right processes were not followed. The waiting games continue. The Roundtable Conversation has noticed however that the seeming chaos in the primaries across party lines in the South of the country seem relatively absent in the Northern part of the country. Some political analysts feel that the socio-religious nuances of the Northern region could be a factor in the ways political contests are handled in the region. The issue of fatalism in the predominant Christian and Islamic religions is handled differently in both regions. The Roundtable Conversation is excited at the events in the Nigerian political space not necessarily because the processes are perfect but for the lessons about the democracy being practiced and how the events can shape the future for good or for bad. The cultural and sociological nuances that have defined the return to democracy since 1999 keep playing out. We can see the kind of authority governors wield in their states, the systemic flaws are so evident. The wrong things happen because the system is not structured detect , prevent or to punish impunity and abuse of power strictly. The Roundtable Conversation spoke to Dr. Sam Amadi, a lawyer and lecturer and a veteran political analyst. We wanted to find out whether the wave of resignations and withdrawals from contests across the nation was an indication that personalities in the political space are beginning to re-define themselves or change their ways. Dr. Amadi believes that politicians do not necessarily change. They only change tactics depending on how politically expedient their new moves are to them. To move from a party simply because you fear losing the primary contest is neither here nor there. To him, for individuals that have been members of a particular political party for decades, held different political offices, contested several elections and won under the same system must not pretend to be holier than others when the same system does not work in their favour. A candidate gets to become a Councilor, from there to local government chairman, to secretary to government to House of Reps. or Senate then to governor or any other hierarchical positions then suddenly seeks another post and when the system does not favour him, he opts out and pretends he is acting patriotically. In the South East for instance, there have been issues of zoning that seem to have worked in a place like Enugu state. For an Ekweremadu who has been in the field, held many positions for decades to want to thwart the order just because he wants to be governor of the state should be critically evaluated.  His leaving the contest does not seem a virtuous step by any measure.  For Senator Abaribe, he is from the same local government with the incumbent governor Ikpeazu, how right is it for two governors from the same local government to monopolize leadership for more than a dozen years?   Elections, realignment and disenchantment     Supreme Court dismisses Amaechi’s appeal against N96b…     Alimikhena withdraws from Edo senatorial race, dumps APC   To  Dr.  Amadi, many politicians do not like leaving power and they often cite the example of America that we model our democracy after but that to him is a flawed example because while we can get a congressman or senator in America that has spent decades in office, they operate a system that is a bit more structured towards performance and their earnings are not as huge as what our legislators earn comparatively. In the American model, individuals are often ideologically attracted to political parties based on values that are consistent with either the Republicans or Democrats or they run as independents. It is not common to see the kind of movements from being a governor to the Senate just because they can. In cases where it has happened, it is often based on proven records of performance and not because the   candidate can abuse power to emerge. It is a constitutional right of individuals to contest for any post at any given time but posturing as having been violated when you lose out in a contest is laughable. The Roundtable Conversation wanted to find out why Nigerian governors wield enormous powers in determining which aspirants gets what. Is that not a violation of democratic tenets? Dr.  Sam believes that a lot influences the democracy we practice. First is that the system is still not functional enough to put a leash on the all-powerful governors for a number of factors. There is a huge illiterate population and there is poverty. What this means is that the illiterate poor is concerned about the next meal and might very likely see whoever gives him ‘bread’ as the one to follow. So the party members are the ones close to the grassroots and as such, they move with the familiar. There could be intellectuals in the city but how many of them are known in the rural villages, invariably when elections come, they go with those they are familiar with and not necessarily the intellectual that could make better policies in the long run. So the panacea to the present situation is for the intellectuals in the city to move down, join political parties and begin to educate and re-orientate the people who do not know better. The people align with the familiar people that they interact with so there must be a new way or doing things so the people understand that temporary handouts cannot solve long term development problems of infrastructure deficit but the people are trapped. Asked about the solution, Dr. Amadi believes that pragmatism is key. The people must begin to understand that the people are trapped and the pragmatic thing to do is to look for leaders who are open to a system that can guarantee productive economy. We must stop being idealistic and expect that an angel must be in power for things to work, no, things do not work like that. The important thing is to elect individuals with an understanding of what ought to be done. To him, functional politics is not idealism, we must be ready to sieve candidates and vote in ones that can be open to innovative ideas about development. Everywhere in the world, no society seeks out the saint amongst the people. The idea is to make a pragmatic workable choice that is amenable to development. To Amadi, politics is often called ‘The Art of the possible’ which means that the people must work with the best that is possible given other variables. Mobilization, education and interactive communication with the people are important and that is what the elite ought to be doing. The people would then learn the implication of wrong choices and things can change for the better. Staying in the city and moralizing about the ideal without considering the variables those socio-economic and other cultural issues throw up will just mean expecting miracles to happen without human efforts. So it might just be futile idealizing for a different outcome when no efforts are made to enlighten the people whose votes matter.  If we complain about delegates collecting money for ten years, it won’t change anything. Once there is supply, the people will take. when people don’t care about money because they are able to take care of themselves and their families, it will be less. Sometimes the overwhelming status quo remains till something happens to bring change. The best option is to build structures that can criminalize and track such acts of illicit exchange of funds for electoral favours. We must be able to identify a Nixon that can go to China. In essence, let us get a member of the existing order who is ready to make changes and we can see  changes lead to development. For the APC and PDP, the die is cast in the next few days. The dialogue continues…