The governor of Abia State, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu has threatened legal action against one of the People’s Democratic Party’s (PDP) governorship aspirants in the state, Mr. Ncheta Omerekpe. Omerekpe had during his visit to PDP stakeholders and would-be party delegates accused the state government of mismanaging a $300 million dollar loan he helped the state to secure from the African Development Bank (AfDB). Mr Omerekpe also claimed in the same video that he facilitated another investment from the same African Development Bank in the area of Agriculture to the tune of about 2 Billion Dollars for the State Government but that the investment was frustrated because some officials of the State Government demanded a bribe of $200million from the investor. Our correspondent reports that the video of Omerekpe’s statement since it surfaced in the public has generated bad blood within the PDP and the general public.   Oil theft war: Rivers NSCDC bursts syndicate diverting fuel…     46 suspects arrested with firearms, others     Explosion claims one life at Addax Petroleum Izombe…   In a swift reaction, Ikpeazu in a statement through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Onyebuchi Ememanka on Friday debunked the claims that the PDP gubernatorial aspirant helped the state to secure the said loan from the AfDB. According to Ikpeazu, contrary to Omerekpe’s claims, the state was yet to access the said $300 million loan from AFDB which he (Omerekpe) in the said video accused the state of mismanaging. Part of the statement from Ikpeazu’s CPS read “for the avoidance of doubt, let it be made abundantly clear that as at today, the Abia State Government has not accessed any loan of 300 Million Dollars or any amount whatsoever from the African Development Bank. Not a penny! Not a single dime! “While serving as the then Deputy General Manager of ASEPA in Aba, Dr Ikpeazu helped in the preparation of certain technical documentation for the Abia State Government in their discussions and negotiations with the African Development Bank under the ABA INTEGRATED PROJECT ON SANITATION, ROADS, STORM WATER MANAGEMENT, ETC. “When Dr. Ikpeazu was elected Governor in 2015, he inherited the discussions and has been in the forefront of leading the negotiations with the African Development Bank and has had several interfaces with the Bank’s topmost Management Team both in their Nigerian office at Abuja and their headquarters in Abidjan, Cote D’Ivoire.”