The leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has forgiven the Sterling Bank and its Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Abubakar Suleiman, over the provocative and demeaning Easter greeting advertised by the Bank. The Bank in the said advertisement had compared the Resurrection of Jesus Christ to ‘Agege Bread.’ CAN said the bank had written an acceptable and genuine apology letter dated 20 April 2022 to the CAN personally and signed by the Chief Executive Officer, Abubakar Suleiman. According to a statement issued on Saturday by the CAN General Secretary, Joseph Daramola: “Equally, some well- meaning and highly placed Nigerians have been appealing to CAN to forgive in the Christian spirit and in consonance with the message of Easter. “As a result of this development, CAN has resolved to forgive Sterling Bank and its Chief Executive. We always remember that ‘to err is human and to forgive is divine.’   GenCos, NBET renegotiate contracted capacity – NERC     First batch of UTME results out next week – JAMB     NANS urges ASUU to be flexible as negotiations with FG…   “In taking this step, we are following the footsteps of our Lord and Saviour, Jesus Christ who asked God to forgive those who nailed Him to the cross unjustly and has taught us to always forgive. “We hereby call on all Christians in the country to join us in forgiving the Sterling Bank and its management. Those who are considering stopping patronizing the bank as a result of the blunder should stop the process but instead continue doing business with the bank. “We appeal to corporate institutions, especially the banks, to be more sensitive, considerate and professional in handling their public messages. “Whatever that can cause religious crises in the country should be avoided at all costs, both by the government and the business sector. “We appreciate our youths who heeded our directive and refused to be dragged into the streets to protest against the bank as being touted in some quarters. “We acknowledge and appreciate the efforts of the well-meaning Nigerians who intervened in the matter. May the blessings of Peacemakers be their portion in Jesus’ name,” CAN said.