In line with its mission to provide Nigerians with the fastest, most convenient and affordable access to the best medical expertise available anywhere in the world, Duchess International Hospital, Lagos, has launched an “Access to Affordable World-class Healthcare Programmme (AAWHP).” With as little as N5,000 registration to get family card and seeing renowned consultants starting from N5,000, the management of Duchess Hospital is making a bold statement that the purpose-built, state-of-the art 100-bed hospital is not only for the elite. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the hospital, Dr Adetokunbo Shitta-Bey, said AAWHP was designed to “provide access to the hospital’s extensive range of high-quality services in emergency medicine and critical care, women’s health and paediatric care services, cardiovascular medicine, kidney dialysis, endoscopy, medical and surgical treatment interventions, dental treatments, eye care services and a wide variety of additional services and sub-specialties all available at a single location in the heart of Ikeja.” The Minister of Information, Culture and Tourism, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, while leading over 30 journalists on a tour of the hospital, said that with world-class health facilities like Duchess International Hospital springing up across Nigeria, the country is on the path to becoming a destination for medical tourism and also reversing medical tourism, conserving  foreign exchange and creating jobs.   WASCO gets new name     LASUTH opens new dialysis unit     Stress can trigger diabetes says nutritionist   While commending the hospital for putting up such a world- class healthcare facility in Ikeja, Mohammed noted that “with what we have seen today and the programme that has just been launched, Nigerians can now get access to affordable and quality healthcare in any area of medicine by obtaining a card for N5000 and consultancy fee to see an expert starting from N5,000.” He said with this friendly fee structure, Duchess Hospital has widened the population of Nigerians who can access quality healthcare. The minister expressed delight that many of the doctors at Duchess Hospital, a subsidiary of the Reddington Hospital Group, are Nigerians who had trained and worked abroad, but who have decided to return home to practise because of the availability of cutting-edge medical facilities and good work environment. The Duchess International Hospital was launched in October 2021 by the Vice- President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo. It was partly funded by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Bank of Industry (BoI) as part of the overall plan by the Federal Government to make quality healthcare more accessible and affordable to more Nigerians across socio-economic divide.