Artisans, market women and others in Kwara state have endorsed the presidential aspiration of the National Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. They made the endorsement in Ilorin, the state capital during the launch of the North Central for Asiwaju (NCFA) 2023. NCFA is in alliance with South West Agenda for Asiwaju 2023 (SWAGA). The South West Agenda for Asiwaju 2023 is a coalition of progressives/democrats within the political landscape supporting the 2023 presidential ambition of Tinubu. All the speakers at the event unanimoualy agreed that the former governor of Lagos state has the Midas touch to repair Nigeria based on his anticident. Representative of market women Afusat Afonja said that Tinubu is the best person for the job of fixing the broken pieces of the country. He urged all to be full of prayers and supplication for the Jagaban of Borgu. Speaking for the artisans, Ebun Opeleye said: “All of us should pray for Tinubu to achieve his heart desire. We are for Tinubu in all ways. “Our support for him in the state is in anyway favouring him. We are merely using this to say thank you for his past good gestures to many Kwarans.” Spokesperson for the youth Nora Gbadamosi said all the youth in the State are speaking with one voice to elect Tinubu. National Coordinator, Women SWAGA Princess Auto Omidiran said Tinubu is the best aspirant out of the pack of others. She said: “I want you all to know that by joining NCFA 2023 you have become ambassadors of SWAGA. By this I urge you to go to the nooks and crannies of the state and preach the virtues of Asiwaju Tinubu.” After the launch of NCFA 2023 in the state, National Chairman, SWAGA Senator Dayo Adeyeye sounded upbeat the Asiwaju Tinubu is the best candidate to beat after his victory at the primaries.   UPDATED: Court declines Nnamdi Kanu’s request for bail     Two feared dead as traders, motorcylists riot in Abuja…     Soldiers disrupt OAU students protest on highway   Hitherto, Emir of Ilorin Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari has backed Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu in his quest to be the president of Nigeria. The monarch said that Tinubu deserves to be the next of Nigeria. Alhaji Sulu-Gambari said that “before now, without sounding immodest, I have been desirous of Tinubu becoming the president of the country. Tinubu connection cuts across the length and breadth of this country. “When we met in Gwandu for book launch in Kebbi state, the former Lagos state governor was the higher launcher. His pedigree and anticident stands in good stead.” The emir spoke when he hosted members of the South West Agenda for Asiwaju 2023 in his palace in Ilorin. Other monarchs that threw their weight behind Tinubu’s ambition are Olofa of Offa and Olupo of Ajase-Ipo Oba Muftau Gbadamosi and Oba Ismail Muhammed. The emir noted that the frontline APC presidential aspirant has traversed Nigeria and impacted on many Nigerians. The emir instantly organised a special prayer for Tinubu and promised to continue to pray both privately and publicly for his emergence. “We pray that God will crown Asiwaju’s ambition with success at the end of the day,” the monarch added. Oba Gbadamosi on his part, hailed the visit of SWAGA 2023 team to his palace. Said he: “We are extremely happy with your visit to our palace. Asiwaju’s achievements in Lagos are legendary. Many us in Lagos are living witnesses of his success story in that state. We have been praying and will continue to pray for Asiwaju on this mission .”Every Nigeeian wants the best to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari so far the person is from the south. It is God that gives power but we pray for the best.” Also speaking, Oba Muhammed said that: “The motive for your coming to this palace which is Asiwaju Tinubu for president is a welcome one. I make bold to say that I was born and weaned Lagos. My mother is from the heart of Lagos main land “I know Asiwaju very well. At the moment he has been test and substantially trusted. This mission is our own. Sincerely, it is ours and we pray it will see the light of the day. “For now, we will keep our fingers crossed. When it is time for us to talk. Lagos is the creation of God. And what we refer to as the current Federal Government is the handiwork of Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu.” Earlier the National Chairman of the South West Agenda for Asiwaju 2023, Senator Adeyeye informed the emir that they were in the state to inaugurate the North Central for Asiwaju 2023 to propagate and promote the emergence of Tinubu as Nigeria’s next president. He disclosed that the group has visited over 300 traditional rulers and has network across the country. Senator Adeyeye said Asiwaju Tinubu laid the foundation for a new Lagos with strong economic base and added that such a person deserves to be Nigeria’s next president.