A Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) gubernatorial aspirant in Akwa Ibom, Onofiok Luke has stated he will not participate in the party’s governorship primary holding on Wednesday. Luke, in a statement he personally signed in Uyo, said he took the decision after consulting with his Amazing Grace Campaign Team. He said his non-participation was based on the unfortunate reality that he will not receive any support from adhoc delegates that will vote at the primary. According to him: “Our hope of victory was dependent on God using the delegates at the PDP primaries and ultimately Akwa Ibom people at the general election.This was our conviction and it is still our conviction today. “However, unfolding realities within our party and the Nation have called for a reconsideration of my participation in the gubernatorial primaries of our party today.   Abaribe withdraws from Abia governorship race, says process…     30 Nigerian celebrities made by reality shows     BREAKING: Gunmen invade Kukah’s parish, kidnap priests   “This is for the simple fact that we will not be going into this election with our largest support base which is the statutory delegates. We also do not have any of the ad hoc delegates as our supporters who bought forms to be Adhoc delegates were excluded from the process. “This position they have stated in a formal protest to the national headquarters of our party and have also sought redress”. The Chairman House of Representatives Committee on Judiciary said President Muhammadu Buhari’s refusal to assent to the amended Electoral Act to allow statutory delegates vote at the primary has put him at a disadvantage. “This Statement would have been issued much earlier than now but we were waiting and hoping that the President would assent to the amended electoral bill 2022 which would have corrected the oversight. As of this morning, Mr President is yet to assent to it. “Consequently, I will not be participating in today’s governorship primary election. I make this statement after due consultation with the leadership of the Amazing Grace Campaign team and representatives of my support base. “I am prayerfully and politically consulting on the way forward, and I will communicate same in the coming weeks,” he said.