Rising Nigerian music star, Rema will be having a first-of-its-kind joint performance with accomplished Afrobeat singer and instrumentalist, Lagbaja. The Nation was reliably informed that the joint performance will be taking centre stage in the highly anticipated 2022 Africa Magic Viewers Choice Awards on May 14, 2022. It was further gathered that the joint performance is being orchestrated by Pepsi, one of the major sponsors of the film awards ceremony.   AMVCA 8 announces digital content creator’s day competition     Nigerian creatives should bother less about international…     Asuelime’s In Circle highlights domestic violence in Nigeria   According to the General Manager, Marketing, Seven-Up Bottling Company, Segun Ogunleye, the decision was to further establish Pepsi’s aim of using music as an avenue to connect with generations from the past, present, and future. “We are excited to announce that Afrobeat icon, Lagbaja, and Pepsi Ambassador, Rema, will headline the maiden edition of the Confam Gbedu musical concert. We believe this performance will further establish Pepsi’s position as the refreshment of choice using music as an avenue to connect with generations from the past, present, and future. The performance will bring a fresh and unique dynamic to the AMVCAs,” Ogunleye said. Lagbaja, a singer, songwriter, saxophone wizard, and performer is famous for being masked on the stage. He was at the peak of his powers in the 90s through the early 2000s when he sold-out concerts around the country. Even now, he continues to deliver vintage-quality performances across the world. Rema unveiled as a Pepsi brand ambassador last September is a singer and rapper who rose to stardom with the release of “Iron Man”, which even appeared on Barack Obama’s 2019 summer playlist. Rema is known for his unique brand of music known as Afrorave, a subgenre of Afrobeat with Arabian and Indian musical influences. He is one of the country’s most-followed artists, with his fans self-identifying as Ravers.