Nigeria’s Remo Stars and Egypt’s ENPPI will battle for the ITTF African Club Championships title today at the Molade Okoya-Thomas Hall of Teslim Balogun Stadium. Already, Remo Stars led by West Africa champion Taiwo Mati as well as Amadi Umeh and Azeez Solanke remains unbeaten following emphatic victory over their Ghanaian and Cameroonian counterparts. Also, Egypt’s ENPPI led by their French import Antoine Hachard as well as veterans Momen Hussein and Ahmed Nadim showed their intention to clinch the title when they dismissed their Ivorian counterpart 3-0 in the group match and then walked over Kenya in their second group match. Meanwhile, the President of ITTF Africa, Khaled El-Salhy, has declared Lagos as the new hub of table tennis on the continent at a press conference in Lagos to usher in the 2022 African Club Championships.   Napoli celebrate Osimhen’s U-23 award     Visa hitches alter Eagles’ list against Mexico, Ecuador     Football can change the world, Infantino insists   The ITTF Africa chief based his assertion on Lagos’ continuous, successive and successful hosting of Grade-A, ITTF-rated table tennis tournaments with top players from Africa and the world in attendance. He thanked the Lagos State government in particular for its commitment to the sport in the last seven years, which he said had helped to produce world-class players in Africa. “I must commend the government of Lagos State for what they have done for table tennis,” El-Salhy said. “This city has become the hub of table tennis because all players within and outside Africa are always looking forward to competing in Lagos, especially with the huge spectators at the venue who come out in large numbers to support the sport and players, regardless of their teams or countries. “ITTF now considers Lagos as one of the cities around the world which cannot be ignored when it comes to staging top-class competitions,” he added. 16 clubs – made up of nine men and seven women – are competing in the Club Championships from May 23 to 25 while 48 players (28 men and 20 women) will go for continental slots at the Africa Cup from May 26 to 28.