Three persons have been reportedly killed in a fresh attack by suspected cultists in Inen Community, OrukAnam local government area of Akwa Ibom State. The Nation learnt they were killed in their houses in the early houses of Tuesday when some hoodlums arrived the community in a motorcycle convoy and robbed them. Johnson Akpakpan, an eyewitness, said the first house they ransacked was that of Mrs. Choice Etuk, a survivor of last year’s attack. He said the hoodlums accosted Etuk’s step son before they killed him and escaped with the victim’s new motorcycle. Narrating the incident, Akpakpan said the hoodlums, suspected to be cultists from neighbouring communities, proceeded to Elder Sunday Jumbo’s compound and killed the second before they killed the third victim and bolted away with “POS” machine. Another eyewitness, who pleaded anonymity, said the killing is cult-related as the hoodlums came from neighbouring local government for the operations.   BREAKING: Reps amend Electoral Act for statutory delegates…     Panic as another explosion hits Jalingo     UPDATED: Angry Buhari orders Malami, Amaechi, Akpabio,…   “I cannot establish whether the group is Debalm or Iceland confraternities. But we are suspecting that they are not robbers. If they were robbers, they would have collected the motorcycle, money and ” POS” machine without killing the victims. “We are shocked that this incident has returned to our community after the whole village was deserted last year because of cult related killings ” Chairman of OrukAnam local government area Hon Kingsley Frank has mobilised all joint security teams to restore peace in the area. Akwa Ibom Police spokesman SP Odiko Mcdon confirmed the incident but explained there are conflicting reports over the casualty figures. “There is a conflicting report concerning the number of victims involved. But as a Command, we have commenced investigation to avert more killings. “We are out to establish the cause of the incident. We are determined to ensure that the culprits are brought to book,” he said