The Special Adviser to the President on Power and Infrastructure, Ahmed Zakari, has declared his intention to run for the governorship election in 2023 in Jigawa State. Zakari, an engineer, made his intention known in a letter of intent signifying his decision to present himself as an aspirant seeking to fly the flag of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He said his decision was based on calls from political and other interest groups across the state urging him to contest the poll. He promised to build on the good foundation laid by the incumbent governor, Alhaji Muhammad Badaru Abubakar, whom he said had done a tremendous job in building an administration that was truly for the people. Zakari said: “Governor Abubakar has overseen significant infrastructural development in our great state from increased electricity access to water access for social and irrigation purposes to a further linking and expansion of our in-state road network. The agricultural revolution in the state cannot be overstated.” He said he would leverage on his requisite experience in Engineering, Economics, Finance and Administration to continue the empowerment of the people and communities in Jigawa State began by Governor Abubakar.   Why residents want me re-elected, by Oyetola     Adeleke, Babayemi factions agree on delegates ahead PDP…     ‘Ibadan deserves special status’   “I believe if given the opportunity, I can build on the great legacy of His Excellency Governor Abubakar. My records speak for me. I have always been an early starter. I became the youngest African executive in the history of General Electric’s renowned CAS programme at the age of 28. I started repositioning and managing multibillion dollar businesses in GE at the age of 29,” Zakari said. On why he is the best man for the job, Zakari who is an indigene of Daragi village in Gwiwa Local Government of Jigawa State, said in his stint as the Special Adviser, he had attracted multibillion naira projects to the state, notable among which were;  to work on projects in Jigawa such as the Gumel General Hospital Mini-Grid, the rehabilitation of the “Kan Dam” Road in Kazaure as well as the soon to commence hospital and health care electrification projects for Hadejia, Kazaure, Babura and Dutse (Rashid Shekoni) General Hospitals. “In all, I have worked on 23 projects (completed and ongoing) in Jigawa State and contributed to the addition of almost N2 billion in infrastructure,” he said. The aspirant said if elected governor, he would transform the state through groundbreaking infrastructure projects beginning with the construction of 1MW to 5MW solar hybrid electricity mini-grids in each local government and guaranteeing 24-hour power supply in our five Emirate headquarters. He also promised to develop one industrial cluster per Emirate, leveraging the Gagarawa template established by the Abubakar administration. He promised to expand arable land patterning’ with the River Basin Authorities and leveraging technology through solar powered irrigation. Zakari, who is also the Santuraki of Kazaure, is the youngest appointee in the Buhari administration to occupy a cabinet level position as Special Adviser to the President on Infrastructure.