The Department of State Services (DSS) has put the nation on notice again. Some elements are bent on disturbing the peace. They want to leave a trail of blood, deaths and broken infrastructure in different parts of the country. It was on the eve of the Eid Mubarak celebrations. DSS has done this quite a few times, and it has discharged its duty to alert nationals to this shadow of violence cast over Nigeria. In a statement credited to its spokesperson Peter Afunanya, the agency said, “Though there are already reported cases of such incidents in some areas, the service has uncovered a ploy by suspected criminal gangs to forge an alliance among themselves, with a view to launching further attacks on critical infrastructure and other frequented public places like worship and relaxation centres, especially during and after the holidays and festive celebrations.” Given the frequency and preponderance of such attacks, especially in the north, it is sometimes hard to appreciate the value of such warnings from the security agency. We can take it to mean that the bandits have a vision to make such predations more sly, more lethal and more widespread. We have seen the nature of their work in the past few months. Prominent among them was their onslaught on the train between Abuja and Kaduna. We have not seen the end of that bloody saga. Apart from the fatalities on the spot, we saw what we had not seen before. A bower of security that Nigerians had conferred comfort, safety and luxury collapsed from the work of hoodlums who took away over a hundred citizens on motorcycles with the impunity of casual confidence. One of them had a baby that graced with frightful innocence the front page of some newspapers and trended on social media. An old man and government top man volunteered a hundred million Naira for his safety. They live on mercantile violence. We have seen the almost routine forays in Kaduna, in schools, on highways and the airport, turning that once-serene stronghold into a fragile underbelly of the nation. The governor of the state, Nasir El Rufai, has done quite a lot of carping, complaining and public outcry, showing his vulnerability and his sinecure status as chief security officer of the state, a flaw not of his making but the constitution.   Buhari’s onslaught against own anti-graft war     Of rats, rants and ransom     Teach us to number our days…   But we should take the warning seriously. The statement hints at a possible new alliance among the hoodlums. Afunanya adds: “The objective is to achieve some self-serving interests as well as cause fear among the citizenry. The service, however, recalls its earlier warning that some groups and individuals were plotting to stoke violence in the country.” The DSS sees this as a job of public self-vigilance and intelligence sharing within the civic realm. “Following these, patrons, owners and managers of aforementioned public places are advised to be wary of this development and implement basic security measures to deter the threats… residents are enjoined to go about their lawful businesses and share, with security and law enforcement agencies, useful information on the activities of criminals.” This is a task that fellow Nigerians must take seriously. The statement did not give us enough specifics, and it did not name cities or regions of special vulnerabilities. The phrase “critical infrastructure” is vague in the statement. What is more specific is its mention of worship and relaxation centres. Worship centres include churches and mosques. Bandits have targeted these places because they are often left unguarded. It is significant, and this requires the various imams and priests to rely not just on the spirit of God but also their own God-given wisdom to secure their places of service.