The Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC) has intensified its efforts in ensuring Team Nigeria athletes get quality training ahead of the Paris 2024 Olympics. Basking in the success of ensuring the International Olympics Committee (IOC) captured eight Nigerian athletes in its scholarship scheme ahead of the Paris 2024 Olympic Games, the NOC has scored yet another goal with Elizabeth Anyanacho. The Habu Gumel-led NOC has secured high-performance training for Elizabeth Oluchi Anyanacho, one of the beneficiaries of the International Olympic Committee Scholarship at the Taekwondo Competence Center (TCC), Friedrichshafen in Germany to boost her preparation and qualification towards the Paris 2024 Olympic Games. NOC’s scribe Banji Oladapo said they were determined in their role to prepare the best of Nigerian athletes for the Games imbued with Olympic values.   Nigeria trounce Ghana 2-0 in U20 AFCON qualifying tournament     Rohr: FIFA orders NFF to pay outstanding salaries over…     EPL: Everton beat Leicester to move out of bottom three   The TCC in Friedrichshafen combines sports-scientific, innovative know-how in theory and practice, connects science, research and sports-practical work on highest level. “Elizabeth will train under a well-developed training structure which is supervised by world class coaches and scientific personnel. This is a pilot program to aid the development of Taekwondo in Nigeria,” Oladapo noted. Anyanacho was Nigeria’s sole representative in the Taekwondo event at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games, and the first women athlete to represent Nigeria in the martial art sport at the Olympics in 16 years. The Statistics undergraduate of the Federal University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO), Anyanacho, though lost her fight against a much matured and experienced double Olympic Medallist, Nur Tartar of Turkey but left lasting impressions that made Taekwando officials dub her the future of Taekwando. Anyanacho is mentored and coached by Nigeria’s Taekwando Olympic medallist and icon, Chika Chukwumerije.