Lewis John travelled from Makurdi, the Benue State capital to hone his skills with a Lagos-based basketball club with the hope of plying his trade in the domestic league. But for three years, he has not been able to play any competitive tournament where his talent would be spotted by club scouts due to his inactivity in the domestic league. As a result of this, John has  returned  to Makurdi to pick up the pieces of his life and tow another line of career outside sports. Similarly, John Oweh of Raptors Basketball Club could hide his disappointment when he told NationSport that some of his teammates  have been forced into early retirement  following  the  unending leadership crisis in the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) with two factions laying claims to the federation Oweh who was part of the Nigerian team to the FIBA Zonal Championships in Benin Republic in 2016, traced the genesis  of the crisis  that had over time pitched two opposing sides against each other. “I was part of the Nigeria team that went to Benin Republic for zonal qualifiers and when we got there, having played the first game but while getting set  to play the second game, we just saw another Nigerian team on the court,” he opened up on the crisis befuddling the NBFF .“ It was there we knew that the crisis had started as both teams were stopped from playing in the competition. “So, we just greeted ourselves having known each other from home before getting to  Cotonou and ever since,  the players are now being used to settle scores,” he lamented. Oweh, a product of the National School Championships , said he was  yet to play competitive matches since 2018 , adding the future looks bleak for local-based basketball players. Things  got worst  yet again this year  when Mark Igoche was elected president in a parallel election reportedly supervised by the sports ministry in Abuja January 31 while incumbent NBBF president, Musa Ahmadu-Kida, was also re-elected Same day in Benin City, the Edo State capital  with world body FIBA officials in attendance. “When we started basketball, there were players we were looking up to because they used to come back from abroad to inspire us, but today’s players had nobody to inspire them as what most of them look forward to is to leave the country and play abroad,” he said.“It is just disheartening that this leadership crisis has taken its toll on the players as most of my teammates have retired prematurely.” Meanwhile, basketball analyst Femi Adefeson , was even more forthcoming  on the NBB crisis even as he shed light on the financial cost since the game had been put in limbo. “The basketball courts were shut down in 2018 when the dispute on leadership of the NBBF became fully blown between  Tijjani Umar and Musa Kida,” he revealed. “It is  just like  saying when two elephants are fighting,  it’s the grass that suffers. “The game has been hit to its lowest point locally. “Firstly, the loss of the Kwese title sponsorship of a $12 million five-year deal after its first year. The inaugural season saw Champions Kano Pillars go home with N20 million naira and a N25 million split at N15m and N10m for the first and second runners up. “ At that time,  it was the highest prize money paid for any professional sports league in Nigeria and the entire West Africa region.” “The battle  has now extended into five years including the 2020 Covid-19 lockdown; a lot of clubs have folded up due to the inability to sustain income and generate income from sponsors. “The domestic league players representation has moved from almost half of the team at continental and world events to none or one which is nothing but a glamorous bench role.   My husband in pain, hallucinates, wife of ailing journalist…     WAFCON COUNTDOWN: Captain Ebi recalls fun-filled Falcons’…     UCL: Klopp admits destiny sealed Liverpool, Real final   “Players have been left  the game in droves with no choice but to become artisans in order  to make a living since their beloved sport and income source has been taken away. “ Not only players have suffered the lack of a domestic league, the coaches too have also had to bear the brunt. “The likes of Ayodele Bakare, Scott Nnaji, Adewunmi Aderemi, Lateef Erinfolami are high profile local coaches who have made their mark through various national teams and continental club championships. “With no domestic season and match rustiness, the continental club championship window has been slammed short while the national teams’ coaches call-up has been offered to their foreign counterparts for the aforementioned reasons not necessarily because of a better record of performance,” he added. Early this year, Nigeria was delisted from the Final Round of this year’s Basketball African League, BAL by FIBA Africa over the crisis rocking the sport in the country. The basketball ruling body in a letter dated January 14, 2022, signed by the Secretary General, Alphonse Bile stated that Nigeria’s Rivers Hoopers cannot participate in this year’s Final Round. Reason for FIBA Africa’s sanction according to a document is that Nigeria did not conclude its national League and as such, cannot present a team. Bile, who is also FIBA Africa regional Director in the letter further  wrote: “Would like to inform you that the Executive Committee of FlBA Africa, in agreement with FIBA, decided at its last session that Nigeria’s Rivers Hoopers Club is not retained to participate in the final phase of BAL as the Nigeria Basketball Federation has not confirmed  that it has, by its own initiative, ensured the effective  organization of a regular national championship this season. “FIBA Africa cannot therefore authorize the participation of a Nigerian club in the BAL this year.” Rivers Hoopers General Manager, Ifie Ozaka was demoralized with the decision borne out of the crisis in the NBBF: “This is a huge blow to us and all because of politics that is not helping our basketball in any way. You can imagine how much the Rivers State government invests in the players, annual salaries and other expenditures. We are totally disillusioned by this. The players have been in training towards the Final Round of BAL.” For Seun Akinwale, an assistant coach with MFM Basketball Club, the crisis has indeed affected the sport in many ways than one, though with the caveat that it has somehow helped the development of the sport at the grassroots level. “I think the crisis has really affected the sport in terms of revenue to the actors – coaches and players while some have been rendered jobless because of the inactivity,” the former Lagos Islanders star said. “Apart from the Division One and Two that have been staged, no upper league for the teams that got promoted from the lower divisions can compete in and this has really killed the passion of most players. “ But I must tell you that the gains of the crisis is that most of us that operate grassroots clubs have been busy lately honing the skills of budding talents in the country. This alone has helped us to give time to future stars in our various clubs,” the Gripps-Breed Basketball Academy founder said. Abimbola Faniran, founder of Akofa Sports Foundation, a basketball talent development body, the crisis has indeed destroyed the fortunes of one of the fastest growing sports in the country. He said: “The game, regardless of the crisis at the top, has been able to continue growing. The development and general acceptance of the game is growing at a rapid rate and it is also the fastest growing sport in Nigeria today with thousands of players across the country. “ The development of basketball in Nigeria can be traced to deliberate efforts of numerous individuals, foundations and a few corporate bodies who, at one point or the other, played basketball and have experienced the impact of the game in promoting discipline, enriching lives and creation of employment even outside the shores of the country. “However, the greatest negative impact of the leadership crisis is the lack of a proper basketball league in Nigeria. Just some eight years ago, the Nigerian Basketball Premier League matches were broadcasted live on Supersports every weekend. “ The league even got deals from Kwese TV after then and the games still continued to have live television broadcast. Think of the impact this publicity and sense of pride this live broadcast had on the players and their families. “ These and many more have been lost and with nothing better to replace them all in the name of leadership crisis,” Faniran regretted.