The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has intercepted consignments of psychoactive substances in Kaduna, Yobe and Plateau States. The Director, Media and Advocacy, NDLEA, Mr Femi Babafemi, said this in a statement on Sunday in Abuja. Babafemi said a drug dealer, Obinna Anene, a.k.a Young Alhaji, was arrested on May 6 at Buwaya Kaduna, Kaduna State, with 50,000 tablets of Diazepam. He said the drugs, which weighed 9kg, were intercepted along side 595 tablets of Tramadol weighing 318grams and 8 tablets of Co-codamol weighing 6grams. According to him, the same day, a trafficker, Alhaji Yahaya, was caught with 26.5kg cannabis in Damaturu, Yobe, while travelling in a commercial vehicle from Abuja to Maiduguri, Borno. He also said nine drug dealers were arrested by operatives in Lagos on May 5 during raids in black spots in Mushin Olosha, Akala, Langbasa and Ikota in Ajah area of the state with different quantities of Cocaine, Heroin, Methamphetamine, Cannabis, and Skuchies.   List of aspirants who have picked APC presidential forms     2023: INEC chairman denies presidential ambition     Easter Advert: Sterling Bank begs CAN for forgiveness   “Those arrested include: Kehinde Ilori; Osho Demola Nurudeen; Kamarudeen Isiaka; Kazeem Ishola; Afeez Adebolade; Oguntana Aduragbemi; Chuks Alowai; Mrs. Bola Kazeem and Kehinde Ogunleye “In Plateau, NDLEA operatives on May 7, intercepted a truck carrying 673.3kg cannabis along Bassa/Rukuba Barracks road in Jos, while the driver and his assistant fled into the bush. “In other parts of the state capital, two dealers; Manga Emmanuel and Yusuf Usman, were arrested with 34 pinches of cocaine and 400grams of cannabis at Old Airport and Rikkos respectively,” he said. Bababfemi quoted the Chairman, NDLEA, (rtd.), Brig.-Gen. Buba Marwa, as commending the officers and men of the Kaduna, Yobe, Lagos and Plateau Commands of the agency for the arrests and seizures. Marwa charged them and those in other commands across the country to sustain the heat on drug cartels.   (NAN)