Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta has extended his deal with the London club to 2025. A statement of the official website of the club reads: “We are delighted to announce that Mikel Arteta And Jonas Eidevail have signed with contracts with the club. “We marked the moment with a unique double signing at Emirates Stadium.” “I’m excited, grateful and really, really happy today,” Mikel said after signing the extension, which runs until the end of season 2024/25. “When I spoke to Josh he could see the club at the same point and he wanted to take the club the way I wanted to do it. So everything that he’s said, and that Stan has said when I’ve been together with both of them, they’ve always delivered. “We want to take the club to the next level and to compete really with the top teams. In order to do that, we have to be playing in the Champions League. We have to be able to evolve the team, improve our players, improve all departments, generate even more connection with our fans, improve the atmosphere at the Emirates, be able to recruit top, top talent and the best people for this club to drive this project to that level.” Jonas Eidevall has also put pen to paper on a new deal after an impressive first season in London, in which he has taken the Women’s Super League title challenge all the way to the final weekend.   UCL FALL-OUT: ‘No team fights like Real Madrid’     2022 Ibadan Polo Festival gallops off May 16     Nigeria’s Ashe wins award in U.S   Jonas, who joined from Swedish side Rosengard last summer, has signed a contract to the end of the 2023/24 season. “It’s great,” he said. “It allows me to continue to work for a club that I love so much and be around people that I really, really like, and to be able to achieve things together, so I’m really looking forward to that.” Josh Kroenke, speaking on behalf of our owners Kroenke, Sports & Entertainment, said: “My father and I are delighted to have extended both Mikel’s and Jonas’ contracts. It provides stability and clarity for the future and helps us all move forward together effectively. “Mikel’s commitment and passion are clear for everyone to see. We are confident that as we move forward, he will get us back to competing for the top trophies in the game. “Turning to Jonas, he has had a fantastic start to his career in England. He has done a terrific job with the team, and we are in contention for the title on the last weekend. We are confident that he will continue to take us forward in the years ahead.” The pair signed their deals together in the directors’ box, overlooking the pitch at Emirates Stadium, in the presence of chief executive Vinai Venkatesham technical director Edu Gaspar and head of women’s football Clare Wheatley. “I think the timing is perfect,” Edu said. “I really believe the message will be a big lift to everyone. To the fans, to the club, to the players, to Mikel. “It’s important to show everyone where we want to go as a club. We are going to face a big summer again and it’s important to have our manager here.”