Fully understanding how to communicate with your customer has always been a fickle and confusing feat. Are emails more appropriate? What about SMSing? Is social media a better option? The options are many, each with strengths and drawbacks. But there is one method that usually stands out: bulk SMS marketing. Whether for global enterprises, startups, and everything in between, this method of communication with your existing and potential customers never gets old. Bulk SMS makes the most effective way of communicating with customers. Even though it is one of the traditional methods of marketing, it remains the easiest and the most efficient way of reaching out to customers. Compared to emails, messages are 98 percent of the time opened by recipients. Emails have a 22 percent open rate. Therefore, if you are a business and you want to communicate with your customers – and you certainly do – you are far better off using SMS than any other form of messaging. You can reach a huge number of people using bulk SMS within a short period, and apart from being a trusted means of earning loyalty from your target audience, it is also a smart way to remain atop now that everyone owns a phone. You can use bulk SMS for several uses. The most common ones include:   Get your PVC ready!     5 Reasons You Need Travel Insurance     COTP: Earn Over 3.6% daily with U.S Licensed Crypto…   The best part about bulk SMS is that it is not limited to the size of your business. Everyone can use it to enhance their connection with their clients or customers. The advantages of using bulk SMS are immense, and this necessitates the need to have a trusted and reliable provider. Celcom Africa is undoubtedly the best bulk SMS provider in Kenya with reliable and affordable services that allow your business to send text messages effortlessly. It specializes in bulk SMS software services or bulk text messages for schools, churches, NGOs, SACCOs, SMEs, corporates, and other organizations. With Celcom Africa SMS API gateway, you as a business can acquire more customers by leveraging its success in Kenya to reach the desired target audience. With their stellar services, Celcom Africa SMS ensures that your goals, whether it is to procure more clientele, generate leads, increase traffic, or generate more sales are seamlessly met. You can utilize their services to promote your business to both existing and potential clients, stakeholders, employees, and golf members to name a few. All you need for your business is to create a marketing list first. While doing this, always ensure that every listed person has your consent to avoid issues. Text messaging for marketing is impacted by different rules across countries. So, it is important to check the regulations. After creating your marketing list, design a strategy that outlines who you are trying to reach and the goal for each message. Before you hit send, make sure that you are clear on what you want the customer to take. Whether you want them to visit you for consultation, to buy your product, to subscribe to your service, every message must provide sufficient value that encourages them to do so. If you are selling a product at discount, for instance, use a sense of urgency such as “offer ends at midnight.” Luckily, you can achieve all these with the help of Celcom Africa Bulk SMS Services. Sign up and test it. It may well be the innovative digital enablement tool you need to scale and grow!