All Progressives Congress (APC) governors are under pressure to respect an understanding with their party and National Assembly leadership to give automatic 2023 return tickets to some Senators and House of Representatives members. Those being proposed to return automatically are lawmakers rated to have performed very well. Primaries for Senatorial and House of Representatives will hold on May 26 and May 27. Senate President Ahmad Lawan and House Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila at last month’s meeting of the National Executive Committee (NEC) demanded a “fair share” of slots for credible lawmakers. Lawan repeated the same feeling when he had an audience with Governor Aminu Bello Masari during his presidential aspiration shuttle to Katsina to meet with delegates. Lawan and Gbajabiamila said the automatic tickets to experienced lawmakers would help the growth of democracy. The National Assembly leaders also came up with seat concessions for some Senators and Representatives to put APC in good stead to win some states and resolve intra-party crises in others. It was learnt that there were proposals to prevail on governors to concede automatic tickets to 40 out of 109 members of the Senate and 55 out of the 360 in the House. The party leadership, which bought into the idea of retaining capable hands in the National Assembly on merit, was said to have reached an “unwritten agreement” with the governors. APC National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, added a caveat that governors anointing their successors or going for a second term should not dabble in the choice of candidates for National Assembly. He advised governors seeking second terms to allow outstanding members of the National Assembly, especially those who have sponsored bills and motions which have enhanced national development, to return to their chambers. Although he reaffirmed that all candidates belong to the party, Adamu assured that APC would consult with the governors and National Assembly leadership. It was learnt that while some governors have respected the gentleman pact, others are holding back, claiming that the position of the party is “advisory and not binding.” It was further gathered that the party has been mounting pressure on the governors to honour the understanding “in line with the party’s strategy to win the 2023 general election.” The National Assembly leaders have held on to the “mutuality” at the last NEC meeting. A source from the Northwest said: “There was this understanding at the NEC meeting but it has been challenging to ask the governors to respect the moral agreement. “Apart from INEC guidelines which made APC postpone its primaries, the concession of seats to some members of the National Assembly is a big problem at hand.” The source gave insights into the scenarios in some states and how the party has been trying to manage the situation. The source added:  “For instance in Zamfara State, Governor Bello Muhammad Matawalle has respected the party’s wish by conceding senatorial tickets to ex-Governor Abdulaziz Yari and Sen. Kabir Marafa, who were his political foes. With this, Matawalle’s second term is guaranteed because APC is now united and stronger. In fact, they are planning a mega rally at the weekend. “The dousing of political tension in Zamfara State may also assist in resolving the security challenges facing the state. “In Ekiti State, Governor Kayode Fayemi  has accepted the party’s formula by allowing Sen. Adetumbi Olubunmi and Sen. Michael Opeyemi Bamidele to have another term in the Senate.” “From records, Governors Babajide Sanwoolu and Nasir El-Rufai have been able to provide leadership by managing the situation well including the retention of Sen. Tokunbo Abiru (Lagos East). El-Rufai has chosen Sen. Uba Sani as his successor. “To resolve the crisis in Gombe State, Governor Inuwa Yahaya has kept to the settlement agreement between him and his political mentor by complying with the decision. “He favours the return of Sen. Danjuma Goje (Gombe Central) to the Senate. The same equity formula may apply to Sen. Sa’idu Ahmed Alkali (Gombe North) and Sen. Bulus Kilwangs Amos (Gombe South). “In spite of the emergence of other senatorial aspirants, Governor Inuwa Yahaya was on Thursday locked in a meeting with APC leaders from all the local governments in the state on how to reunite and ensure the power equation in the state. Some aspirants may be asked to step down for the three senators. “Governor Yahaya may have a smooth re-election sail in 2023 because the APC crisis in Gombe is over.” Regarding Nasarawa State, the reconciliation after the contest for the office of the national chairman of APC is working. Former Governor Tanko Al-Makura (Nasarawa West) has his ticket unopposed. But the main problem is the uncertainty over Sen. Akwashiki Godiya (Nasarawa North) whose position is being contested by a former Executive Secretary of the National Judicial Council, Mr. Danladi Halilu Evuluaza, who is a close friend of the governor and the National Chairman of APC, Abdullahi Adamu. According to another source, the APC leadership has been persuading the governors to put the party above self or political sentiments.   Wike: those who formed nPDP don’t deserve PDP ticket     Tambuwal, PDP Reps to Buhari: sign Bill now     A touch of madness needed to rule Nigeria, says Obasanjo   The governors have, however, drawn the attention of the party to some exigencies which may not allow them to implement National Assembly leaders’ advisory. The source said: “We have a situation in Ogun State in which Governor Dapo Abiodun is not in good terms with Sen. Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun Central)  and Sen. Tolulope Odebiyi (Ogun West). The governor is more at home with Sen. Solomon Adeola Olamilekan. “The governor has to choose among ex-Governor Gbenga Daniel, incumbent Sen. Mustapha Ramoni Olalekan and Seyi Oduntan for Ogun East Senatorial seat. The party is in dilemma to keep to the defection agreement with Daniel. “APC has a challenge in Kebbi State. The outgoing governor, Sen. Atiku Bagudu wants to go back to the Senate and he is seeking the ticket of Sen. Adamu Aliero(Kebbi Central), who was prevented from defecting to the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP). “Following the exit of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami from the gubernatorial race, the governor has the liberty to pick his successor. Now, he wants to have his cake and eat it. “APC leadership is claiming that the governor cannot have the two slots. And Aliero is a kingmaker the party cannot joke with in order to retain the state. “The governor is also keeping the Senate Leader, Sen. Yahaya Abubakar Abdullahi in suspense. The Senator had obtained governorship form but there is pressure on him to step down for a senatorial offer. There is no word from the governor yet. “Concerning Borno State, the second term of Sen. Kashim Shettima, the political leader in the state, is guaranteed with an automatic ticket. “But the fate of Sen. Ali Ndume (Borno South) is only a major factor. He is rated as a rebel by the political leadership in the state but he is backed by the powers that be in Abuja since he became the coordinator of Rotimi Amaechi Presidential Aspiration Organisation. The riddle has not been resolved in the state.” A third source spoke of the challenges in Sokoto, Kogi, Niger and Kwara states. The source added: “The kingmaker in Sokoto, Sen. Aliyu Matgakarda Wamakko is seeking the governorship slot for his political mentee and he does not mind foreclosing his return to the Senate. “He has been telling his colleagues that he is already tired of flying here and there. The party however does not want him to impose the senatorial candidate for Sokoto North who will be his successor. “Otherwise, the senatorial ticket is automatic for Wamakko.” “In Kogi State, the coast appears clear for Sen. Isa Jibrin Echocho (Kogi East) but having noticed the body language of Governor Yahaya Bello, the Senator Yakubu Oseni (Kogi Central) did not show interest in the seat. As for Sen. Smart Adeyemi, the governor was yet to make any commitment despite representation to him by the National Assembly leaders that the Senator is a “vibrant and experienced lawmaker.” “In Kwara State, Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq has to choose between Sen. Lola Ashiru (Kwara South) and his new ally, Tunji Olawuyi (aka Ajulo), who is presently a member of the House of Representatives representing Ekiti/Irepodun/Isin/ Oke-Ero constituency. “The same choice factor is confronting the governor on Kwara Central Senatorial District ticket being sought by the incumbent Sen. Yahaya Ibrahim Oloriegbe and a former aspirant for the office of National Chairman, Mallam Salihu Mustapha (Turaki Ilorin), who was part of the negotiation which led to the merger of parties to form APC. Turaki is commanding large followership in the district.” “We have the same situation in Katsina State where Governor Aminu Bello Masari was yet to take a final decision on the fate of his former Chief of Staff, Mandiya Bello (Katsina South). “Apart from being an active Senator, Bello is a member of the strategy team of the President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, who is pleading for an automatic ticket for the senator.” In Niger State, Governor Abubakar Sani Bello is interested in Niger North Senatorial District which Sen. Aliyu Sabi is holding. The two leaders have bought nomination forms. The Senate leadership is deeply concerned about the political future of one of its robust principal officers. “The argument in Niger State is that adherence to zoning is strict in Niger State. The Niger North has two Emirates namely Kontagora and Borgu. Sen. Sabi from Borgu has served two terms and it is the turn of Kontagora axis. Those from Borgu also claimed that the governor will be completing his second term too in 2023. “Sen. Mohammed Sani Musa (Niger East) is going back to the Senate because he was endorsed by stakeholders on Wednesday. “There is a likelihood that Sen. Bima Mohammed Enagi (Niger South) may get a second term automatic ticket having sacrificed his governorship ambition for the candidate of the governor. But he has three other contestants to beat. Gbajabiamila was more forthcoming at the meeting when he said in part: “In terms of primaries, please let our members – I am not asking for favours for our members – but let our members have a fair share in the bargain. This is too important. I will be knocking on the doors of many governors and I want to appeal to them to please in the interest of the party let our members have a fair share. “If a member is not on ground, I will never speak for him because he needs people, but where a member is on ground, is doing well and is loved by his people, let us not deny him of his due. “In this vein, I want to thank profusely the Governor of Kebbi State who just a couple of weeks ago, I met with him in his house to speak on behalf of all of our members who were about ready to cross over to another party. He gave me an audience and he was very magnanimous. “He spoke well and the impression that I got changed when I left that venue in terms of relationship with members and I am happy to hear, your excellency, that since the meeting, things are getting better and looking brighter for all those members. I thank you very much for that accommodation. “And I will still try and see as many governors as possible to please accommodate. Never mind me; I am speaking only for my members the same way governors speak to governors. “We in the National Assembly have a necessity to speak for ourselves where we need to speak for ourselves and I ask that we please accommodate this. I thank Governor Nasir El-rufai. “I remember about four years ago. I paid him a visit to speak on behalf of some members. One or two things he was able to do, some he was not able to do but at least he had a listening ear and I pray that we have the same this time around. Thank you very much. God bless our great party.”