The educational curriculum in Nigeria is outdated and must be updated to produce innovative graduates, first female president of Scientific Products Association of Nigeria (SPAN) Mrs. Kate Isa has said. She called on the government to revamp the educational sector to bring it to the global standard of modernlearning to produce graduates with skills and innovation. The government, she added, should declare an  emergency in the sector. Mrs. Isa spoke in Lagos at the swearing in of executives of League of Achina Women Professionals (LAW-P). LAW-P is a group of professional women of Achina town in Aguata Local Government of Anambra State. Its mission is to promote sustainable health, education and socio-economic development at Achina. Mrs. Isa noted that the present curriculum is outdated and cannot produce employable and innovative graduates to drive the economy. In her address, with the theme: Ending poverty through education: the role of women’, Mrs. Isa expressed dismay that laboratory tools in secondary schools and colleges were still analogue when there are digital tools that would make pupils productive.   ‘Why I wrote three books on real estate’     Firm achieves ISO accreditation     Why power should return to South, by CSOs   She said if the government intended to change the economic narratives, it must invest in education. President of LAW-P Mrs. Chinwe Ezenwa-Mbah, a lawyer, advocated the need to make education accessible to all to end poverty and insecurity. She noted that the number of out-of-school children was alarming, saying it was a failure on governments. Mrs. Ezenwa-Mbah said governments should cater  for the education of all children. She called on governments to apply the same zeal with which it fights insecurity to ensure that all children are enrolled in schools. According to her, this is not just because it is a constitutional matter but especially because the existence of the country depends on it. The traditional ruler of Achinna, Igwe Godwin Obiora, lauded the group for reviving the community’s health centre, which ‘has reduced the mortality rate’. Dignitaries at the event were Chairman of Council of Legal Education Chief Emeka Ngige, Justice Ebimie Okara, jurists, and business leaders, among others.