Barely two months after Aiteo Eastern Exploration and Production Company (AEEPC) had completed the cleaning of the oil spill at its Santa Barbara (OML 29) oil field in Nembe, Bayelsa State, Abereke community in Ondo State is demanding a N20 billion compensation as well as demand for relief materials. The money, the community said, would serve as repayment for damages done to their environment, for the disruption and destruction of their means of livelihood and for relocation of those badly affected. The community in a “Save Our Soul” petition to the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan and made available to The Nation, claimed that the oil spill at the Santa Barbara Christmas Tree, belonging to oil company, was washed down to the community by waves and tides, thereby destroying aquatic lives and fuana which are the mainstay of the people. It stated that the spilled crude oil, which measured over one million barrels, had rendered about 3000 persons, who belonged to cooperative fishing society, jobless while rendering   farms useless.   Fuel scarcity: The refinery challenge     NPA to revive eastern ports, awards contract for dredging of…     Economic benefits of Lekki Deep Seaport   They further claimed that the community, which comprised Abereke and Abereke seaside that had a population of about 200,000 persons, witnessed the pollution of their environment, which lasted for over 30 days, belching smokes that destroyed fuana and farm lands while the crude destroyed the aquatic lives. They informed that the spilled crude was driven by the waves and tides all the way from the Nembe creeks through the Atlantic Ocean to their area where it was further forced in to the estuaries and rivers in the community. Other things on the community’s demand list include the dispatch of experts to stop its further spread and clean up the spill; the commencement of the cleanup to stem further damage to the environment and the people; provision of relief materials to the already displaced people. Aiteo’s Group Head, Media and Strategy, Mathew Indiana-Abasi, refuted the claims. He said the community had no claim to make since the incident was actuated by a third party through  vandalism. He added that petroleum industry regulators signed off on Aiteo SBAR 01 a result of third party interference.