Given the rock bottom fare that Pastor Noah Abraham has advertised for his dream cruise to heaven, one can imagine the type of journey that he and his believers are in for. Most likely a journey of no return; whether in the spiritual or literal sense. The pastor has allegedly told his church members that all they needed to do was pay him the sum of N310,000 each and he would take them to heaven, preparatory to the rapture. The pastor, who heads Christ High Commission, otherwise known as Royal Christ Assembly, was reportedly based in Kaduna, Kaduna State, until he was seized by the fanciful utopia. To facilitate the mission, the pastor left his Kaduna base for Omuo-Ekiti in Ekiti State, where he has established a camp, with a gate which, according to him, leads to heaven. Curiously, some members of the church have fallen for the antics and have consequently been at the camp since April 6. They have forsaken whatever they had in Kaduna to continue their lives at the ramshackle camp, from where they now go about their daily activities, awaiting the announcement of the arrival of the plane that would fly them to heaven! As a matter of fact, they were quoted to have vowed to stay put at the camp until that time comes, insisting that rapture was at hand. “We are not coming back. I can’t explain in details. We are going to make rapture from here. We are going to a heavenly place”, one of the people in the camp was reported to have said. It is such a serious matter that some of them with children abroad have asked the children to return to the country and join them at the camp; mind you, to avoid Daddy G.O. or Daddy Abraham’s wrath, and not necessarily because of fear of missing heaven, which is the purported raison d’etre of their being in the camp. They fear the pastor could do things that would make such children who refuse to heed the call misbehave in their respective places, leading to their sudden deportation or imprisonment. But, in the lighter mode, Pastor Abraham’s story has put the burden on the other pastors, particularly those of them high up there, to explain why they have been taking their congregations through the laborious journeys of coming to church every Sunday, to fellowships during the week, in some cases digging deep; to monthly programmes, annual conventions and all, when all these hapless believers needed to do was part with as little as N310,000 for both their visa and passport straight to heaven? Even yours sincerely can still afford to sponsor some of the people who might be interested in this trip despite my lean resources. My only fear is the trouble that would follow if the mission is aborted for whatever reason. People say there is no fight in church; that it is all a matter of answering “Amen” when the pastor prays: (Ko si’ja ni sooshi, s’adura ns’amin ni). I have no problem with that. But there would be fight in the church if there is a failed contract, in which case the sponsor not only has to refund my money but also pay damages, for his inability to fulfill his advertised mission. Mind you; this is not an ordinary contract or mere dashing the hope that a few millions can assuage. It is about my whole essence as a Christian: making heaven. I believe the courts would be so appropriately guided in determining the fatness of the damages in my favour in the situation. Ha, nkan gbodo ki s’ese rago o, should a pastor make me miss heaven in this kind of circumstance. But, jokes apart, the fact is that, these days, our eyes have seen and our ears have heard a lot, especially on the social media, about very bizarre things happening in some churches around the world. The consolation has always been that by the time one read the details, the dateline would be places like Kenya, South Africa, Zimbabwe, etc. Thank God it is not Nigeria, many of us would say and heave a sigh of relief. Indeed, it cannot happen in Nigeria, we would further boast. But it has happened, and finally in Nigeria. With this Daddy Abraham’s development, it is certain that stranger things could be happening in some churches in Nigeria. Just that they are not yet in the public domain. If this too had not been reported, we never could have imagined it is possible here. Many years ago, such news would be tucked into the ‘Odd World’ section of the  newspapers. Unfortunately, these days, there is only a thin line between odd world and reality world. The gown has caught up with the town. There is nothing happening in the world that does not have its version in the church, an indication that the end of the world could truly be at hand. Or, what do you say about a situation where a pastor bathes married women and ladies naked right in the full glare of other church members, ostensibly to heal them of their afflictions? After bathing them in a basin right inside the church, another pastor rubs their bodies with anointing oil in their semi-naked state, from their legs up, after which the ladies or women are handed back their pants and they step aside in towels to go wear their dresses! Incredible? But that was precisely what happened at the cross-over service in December, last year, in a church in Ghana. As Reuben Abati said on Channels Television, part of the problem why such things happen is that many Christians have turned their pastors into mini-gods such that whatever the pastors ask them to do, they do, without asking questions. Particularly the end-time and prosperity variants of the men of God. What Fela referred to as “joooro jaara joro, follow follow” mentality. I suspect the reason for this kind of unquestioned submission to the will of these pastors is laziness on the part of many Christians to search out the scriptures to know what exactly is required of them. The Holy Bible is a compendium on virtually every situation of life. Where, for God’s sake, did the members falling for the pastor’s antics see it in the Bible that people would be airlifted from a particular place to heaven to await the rapture? Apparently many of these end-time and prosperity pastors are feasting on the spiritual laziness of most of their members who are looking for the cheap way out of every situation.   Presidency 2023? You have to be either for APC or PDP!     2023 Presidency: Why Jonathan should not contest     Nigeria and the 2023 make or mar presidential election   Rather than simply believing Jesus Christ as their Lord and saviour, and asking for the grace to keep the commandments, they want to buy their way through. And so cheaply too. I guess Pastor Abraham knows what he is doing, that is, if all is really well with him. He must have pegged the transport fare at such rock bottom level to show the class of people he knew would most likely fall for his delusion. That is the way such bigots operate. And, since religion has become the opium of most of the people, especially in the developing countries, it becomes easier for the pastors to hoodwink or hypnotise them into doing their bidding. Unless the people who follow pastors like Daddy Abraham are hypnotised or something, I don’t know how even eaglet Christians could be so easily hoodwinked. Come to think of it, how can a paltry N310,000 take someone to heaven in a country whose currency has been so grossly devalued such that presidential nomination form now goes for a princely N100million? Which airline is going to accept such ridiculous amount as air fare for the flight? Daddy Abraham’s Airways, which promises to fly only coffins in the air, given the cheap air fare and the dungeon of a camp where the hapless believers are kept in Omuo-Ekiti? But, as some people have said, if it could happen in the almighty United States of America, who, or what says it cannot happen in Nigeria or even elsewhere? I am talking of the Jim Jones November 18, 1978 experiment that is well documented in the Guyana Tragedy. Jones, also known as ‘The mad messiah’ was an American cult leader who led his believers to commit mass suicide, about 900 of them, in what has become known as the Jonestown Massacre, after his failed promise of utopia to them in the jungles of South America hit the rocks. He had earlier proclaimed himself Messiah of the People’s Temple, an evangelistic group based in San Francisco. Just as well that the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Kaduna State, has disowned Pastor Abraham. Just as well too, that the pastor has finally hinted at what I expected: he has brought the almighty God into the picture. I saw this coming. When people are held for rape, armed robbery, murder or other crimes, they blame it on the devil. Unfortunately, the devil has never come out to say he never sent them on such errand. Now, a man of God has said God instructed him to charge the N310,000 fare per traveller to heaven. “I did it because I got the authority of God who called me to practise for all that want to serve the Lord with their whole heart”, he reportedly said. The problem now is; how do we get to confirm this from God? When Pastor Noah Abraham’s name sake in the Bible, Noah, constructed his ark as directed by God, he never charged anyone who entered the ark. Even if he wanted to charge the human beings, how would he have charged animals that also made their way into the ark? Without prejudice to this claim, and, with due respect, I think Daddy Abraham himself needs deliverance. There is need to ascertain his mental state. Where it is confirmed that he is alright, then the prime driver of what he has done could be economic. The harsh economic situation in the country compounded by Buharinomics has led to all manner of people devising equally all manner of ways to beat the president to his government’s economic hardship. But the government has a lot to do too to wean the poor masses off the situation that has made religion their opium. We must see the Daddy Abraham’s matter to its logical conclusion. Let the rightful be done so that we don’t have a situation of the Jim Jones situation in Nigeria. Boko Haram and other criminals have sucked too much blood in the country these past few years. We cannot afford to shed more through senseless pursuits such as the one under reference. Even if those in Daddy Abraham’s camp awaiting the announcement of the arrival of the aircraft that would take them to heaven have made up their minds to commit suicide (people who could fall for what they fell for could fall for anything), we owe them the responsibility of denying them the unwarranted privilege of delivering their graveside orations ahead of their God-appointed time.