Women’s football stakeholders have praised the sole sponsor of the 2021/2022 Nigeria Women Football League (NWFL) Premiership Super Six, Tulcan Energy Resources. General Manager of Rivers Angels, Matilda Otuene Oyiloha, told  the NWFL MEDIA yesterday  that, the Tulcan Energy Resources sponsorship was timely. “It( the sponsorship)  came at a time, the women’s league needed a life line; their coming put some excitement on all the 14 clubs in the NWFL Premiership and a bigger smile on the top clubs that qualified for the Super Six, “Oyiloha  who doubles as Chairperson of the Women Football League Club Owners,  said. “When the news of  Tulcan Energy Resources sponsorship was broken to us in a meeting with the Chairperson of the NWFL, Aisha Falode, we the members of the Women Clubs Owners, started rejoicing and now that it has manifested, we are very happy and full of praises for the sponsors. “ We shall be grateful if the sponsorship continues and It’s our prayer that , the businesses of Tulcan Energy Resources will  go higher and higher. “We the Club Owners and even the players, are most delighted to have this fantastic sponsorship that included shirt sponsorship and prize moneys to the tune of N10 million.” The Vice Chairman of the Women’s Football Club Owners Association, Emmanuel Osahon, spoke in the same vein: “I want to say a big thank you to Tulcan Energy Resources for trusting the Nigeria Women Football League, with their sponsorship of the Premiership Super Six. “ This has increased the standard of play at the Premiership league level, the result of the improved standard has been evident in all the six participating clubs in this year’s edition of the Super Six going on in Benin City. “   Confederation Cup : Willy Okpara, Ndah storm Uyo with…     NSSF President Joseph elected to ISF Executive Committee     Napoli lines up replacement for Osimhen   brazing up for the challenges next season. If you ask me, I will boldly say Tulcan Energy Resources has tremendously helped the Women’s league in terms of development, as the clubs are more competitive than ever before, to win the cash prizes and also emerge the season’s champions.” Meanwhile, chief coach of Bayelsa Queens and ex-Nigeria international, Moses Aduku, equally lauded management of Tulcan Energy Resources for their solely sponsorship of the NWFL Premiership Super Six . He said: The corporate sponsorship given by Tulcan Energy Resources, has given the clubs playing in the Super Six and indeed other clubs in the Premiership league a reassurance that the league title of the Premiership league is worthy to compete for. “Immediately, we got to know about this sponsorship from Tulcan Energy Resources, the technical crew and the players redoubled our efforts to come out successful.  “ Tulcan Energy Resources with their sponsorship emerged the first corporate sponsor for the NWFL Premiership League Super Six in the history of the women’s football league in Nigeria. Aside from the N1 million each to the six teams in the league, the champions will go home with a cash prize of N5 million, first runners up, N3 million and third place N2 million. While the league champions will also represent Nigeria in the CAF Women Champions League. Meanwhile,  action resumes today when Nasarawa Amazons face Delta Queens at  the University of Benin Sports Complex in Ugbowo at 10:00am and Naija Ratels takes on Rivers Angels at  the same venue by 12:00 noon while Bayelsa Queens  battle Edo Queens at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium at 4pm.