The Federal High Court, Lagos Division, Tuesday granted an application restraining a former chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) Lagos branch, Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya, a.k.a. MC Oluomo, and eight others from collecting union dues and levies from commercial drivers that are non-union members at all motor parks in Lagos State. The ex parte application also restrained the state Government from further enforcing an N800 transport union levy on transporters and commercial vehicles in the state, pending the hearing and determination of the plaintiffs’ substantive originating motion. The eight other respondents affected by the ex parte order are the Registered Trustees of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW); Registered Trustees of Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN); Registered Trustees of Nigerian Association of Road Transport Owners (NARTO); Alhaji Lawal Yusuf Othman; Lagos State Government; Attorney-General of Lagos State; Inspector-General of Police (IGP) and Director of State Security Service (SSS). Justice Peter Lifu granted the application following an ex parte motion filed by a lawyer, Mr. Olukoya Ogungbeje, for himself and on behalf of a new association, the Transport Union Society of Nigeria (TUSON). Ogungbeje filed his application, supported by a 34-paragraph affidavit, in Suit FHC/L/CS/224/2022.   Navy marks 66th anniversary     CNPP urges Buhari to sack ministers     INEC distributes non-sensitive materials   Specifically, he prayed for an order restraining the Respondents from “forceful imposition, collection, extortion of any transport union levies, dues, fees or monies from any person, commercial vehicle diver and or transporter that is not a member of the respondents pending the hearing and determination of the substantive originating motion filed before the court. Justice Lifu had on May 8, 2022, after hearing Ogungbeje, ordered all the respondents in the suit to show cause within seven days from the day they were served with the application, why the orders sought should not be granted. At the resumed hearing of the matter on Tuesday, Ogungbeje told the court that the respondents had been served with all the processes as directed by the court, adding that they failed to show cause within seven days as directed by the court. He prayed the court to grant all the reliefs as prayed. Justive Lifu adjourned till June 6, to rule on the applicants’ motion to join other parties to the suit. Those seeking to be joined include the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State; Nigeria Police Force; Mr. Tajudeen Ibikunle Baruwa; The Registered Trustees of Motorcycle Operation Association of Lagos State (MOALS) and The Registered Trustees of Tricycle Owners and Operator Association of Nigeria (TOOAN). Others are the Registered Trustees of Nagari Nakowa Motorcycle Owners and Riders Association of Lagos State; (NNAMORAL) HRH Oba Adeshina Suleiman Raji, A.k.a JAFO Authority; Lagos State Park and Garages Management Committee; Mr. Hakeem Odumosu (AIG) (Rtd) and Dr. Taiwo Olufemi Salam.