The Federal Government has conferred the National Productivity Order of Merit (NPOM) award on Brittania-U Nigeria Limited, an Integrated Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Company. The oil firm was among 48 Nigerians and organisations in both the public and private sectors that were recognised for their high productivity, hard work and excellence. The individuals and organisations were recognised during the 19th National Productivity Day (NPD) held at the banquet hall, State House, Aso Rock villa, Abuja. In a May 4 invitation, Minister of Labour and Productivity Dr Chris Ngige stated that the award was in recognition of the firm’s high productivity and hard work. The letter, addressed to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mrs. Uju Catherine Ifejika, reads: “The President, Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR has approved the conferment of the National Productivity Order of Merit (NPOM) Award on you in recognition of your high productivity, hard work and excellence. “Your recommendation was based on the report of the National Productivity Order of Merit Award Committee after a vigorous selection process. “On behalf of the President and the entire people of Nigeria, I congratulate you this honour conferred on you by the nation.” President Buhari congratulated the awardees on their accomplishments and said they were carefully selected from a multitude of competitors. Mrs. Ifejika is the first and so far the only woman to become chair and CEO of an Upstream E&P Company in Nigeria. A graduate of Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, she obtained a Diploma in Law and an LLB (Hons.) in 1985 and was called to the Nigerian Bar in 1986.   Sokoto 2023: APC and the need for level playing ground     Katsina, Kano to get 330kv transmission substations     Petrol scarcity in Ondo over leadership crisis   She is a member of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), a fellow of the Institute of Arbitration and Conciliation, as well as a member of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. Her career in the petroleum industry started when she joined Texaco’s Legal Department as Junior Counsel in 1987 and rose steadily to become Company Secretary in 1997. In 2003, her Government and Public Affairs responsibilities in Chevron Nigeria were extended to Cameroon, Togo, Benin, Cote D’Ivoire, and the Democratic Republic of Congo. She joined Brittania-U Nigeria from Chevron in October 2007 as Chair/CEO and has since steered the indigenous company to its current market leading position. Formerly on the Board of Directors of the Federal Ministry of Arts and Culture (2001-2002), Catherine’s leadership of Brittania-U has brought a number significant ‘firsts’. The Ajapa Floating Production Storage Unit, 100 per cent owned and operated by the company, produced its first oil from drilling in 17 months; a feat yet to be equaled by any other company of its kind in Nigeria. She set up six subsidiary companies within seven years, receiving numerous awards for good governance and management in Nigeria, the US, China, and Europe.” Brittania-U is an indigenous integrated company that delivers energy services through exploration & production, subsurface engineering & consultancy. A leader in Nigeria’s petroleum industry, Brittania-U is a major player in the upstream and downstream sectors. With a quality portfolio of oil and gas assets in Nigeria, the company’s capabilities extend through upstream (exploration & production and drilling), downstream, trading of crude products, sub-surface engineering and data appraisal for geophysics and petroleum projects. Brittania-U has been operating in Nigeria for over 20 years and the company’s portfolio of solutions is well aligned with the country’s infrastructure needs, contributing to economic development and improved quality of life in Nigeria. Through our extensive local operating capabilities, it has partnerships with both indigenous and international oil companies; holding interests in licenses for the exploration, development, and production of oil and gas assets onshore and offshore.