Perhaps he didn’t care if history was kind to him. Or maybe he misjudged how history would judge him.  Or he lacked a sense of history. When Arthur Nzeribe died on May 8, at the age of 83, his record of unprogressive political activities overshadowed every other thing about him. His despicable anti-democracy role was a badge of dishonour that he took to the grave.  His life illustrated that riches cannot buy a good name. The stigma of his evil collaboration with anti-people forces outlived him. His death, nearly 30 years after his notorious involvement in efforts to sabotage Nigeria’s historic June, 12, 1993 presidential election, did not diminish the gravity of his partnership with a despotic military regime. As the country looked forward excitedly to democratic rule after eight years of military rule under Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, Nzeribe and others not only desired a continuation of the Babangida regime but also took steps to realise their unpopular desire. Nzeribe was the driving force in a group, ironically named Association for Better Nigeria (ABN), which pursued the continuity of military dictatorship and launched a campaign to keep Babangida in power. The dictator had designed a convoluted programme to restore democracy, but there were signs that he was unwilling to leave the stage. Nzeribe’s group was widely believed to have been sponsored by the deceitful dictator. He said in a 1993 interview: “If Babangida goes, the country will break into pieces.”  Also, he claimed his group had collected signatures from more than 25 million Nigerians who endorsed its position. Dramatically, two days before the election, the ABN, alleging corruption, obtained a mysterious high court injunction against the holding of the poll. The court order was reported to have been issued at night, which reflected a dark plot.   Peter Obi: De-marketing an idol     Emefiele: Before we re-write history     The UK’s plan to send asylum-seekers to Rwanda is…   However, the election was held, with the boss of the electoral commission stating that the court lacked authority to stop it. The contest was between M.K.O. Abiola of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and Bashir Tofa of the National Republican Convention (NRC). Three days after the poll, in the middle of the collation of the votes, the ABN dramatically obtained another court injunction to halt the counting and verification. The electoral body, this time, bowed to the court order and suspended the announcement of the election results the following day.  By this time, it was clear Abiola had won. The Babangida regime subsequently annulled the election, triggering street protests, particularly in Abiola’s Southwest base, that led to the reported killing of more than 100 people by security forces. Nzeribe’s role in the series of events that culminated in the annulment of the election left a huge blot on his image. It was curious that despite having been a senator representing Imo State from October to December 1983, before military coupists struck, he still supported a military dictator and encouraged military dictatorship. It is ironic that he later benefitted from democratic governance. He was a senator representing the Imo-West constituency, from 1999, when Nigeria returned to democratic rule, to 2007, after his re-election in 2003.  He was a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). As chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, he promoted the National Health Insurance Scheme, which was established under NHIS Act (2004) by the Federal Government. Born in Oguta, in present-day Imo State, he attended Bishop Shanahan College, Orlu, and Holy Ghost College, Owerri, both in Imo State; and studied marine engineering at Portsmouth College of Technology and Chesterfield College of Technology in England. In his twenties, he chose a business life. In his thirties, he founded the Fanz Organisation based in London, with interests in heavy construction, arms, oil brokerage, publishing and property investment, with a lot of business in the Middle East and Gulf states.  He was said to be worth more than $1.5bn in 2018, when he was 80. In the end, his prosperity meant nothing, and he will be remembered as an enemy of the people. This should be a lesson, especially to the country’s politicians, many of whom are acquisitive and anti-people.