The Director General of the Yahaya Bello Presidential Campaign Organisation, Hafsat Abiola-Costello, has said she is standing with Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello in the race for the All Progressives Congress’ (APC’s) presidential ticket because she has seen in him, the qualities of leader Nigeria needs this time. Abiola-Costello, daughter of the winner of the 1993 presidential election, the late Chief MKO Abiola, said she chose Bello over Southwest aspirants because she had seen in him the true commitment to the progress of the country. She said with the ongoing work in the campaign, she was sure her principal would be victorious at the primaries, notwithstanding the political stamina of some others in the race. Abiola-Costello spoke yesterday while addressing reporters in Lagos ahead of the APC presidential primaries slated for May 30 and 31 in Abuja. She said Bello was a loyal and respectful person, who would carry everyone along after emerging as the president. On economy, she said statistics from the World Bank on states accountability rating in Nigeria indicated that Kogi ranked top among other states. Abiola-Costello said: “This is a man who met a debt profile of about N135billion in Kogi when he assumed office in 2016, but has been able to reduce it to about N70billion. This is in addition to his huge investments in education, agriculture, security and infrastructural developments. The World Bank accountability ranking of states in Nigeria evaluated Kogi as 2nd in 2017, 1st in 2018 and 2019.   PDP urged to field indigene for Ikorodu Federal Constituency…     My experience under Buhari places me ahead of others, says…     Abiru submits senatorial nomination form   “The draft report for 2021 shows that Kogi scored 100 per cent in all the areas and from indic ations, the state will maintain the first position in 2021, judging from the draft report that was released yesterday. “I am proud of Governor Yahaya Bello (GYB) because of his development records in Kogi. This is a governor that is always looking for progress and the development of lives of his people. This is me, a Yoruba, supporting someone from the Northcentral. “There is no progress without demands. I lost my both parents, though unfortunately, because Nigerians believed in them. I’ve been working with GYB for a while and I have seen that he has the courage and intelligence to deliver Nigeria.” She said as one of the presidential aspirants of the party, Bello had reached out to party stakeholders in nearly all parts of the country, adding that he stood a better chance to clinch the ticket. The director general said in terms of insecurity, the governor had reduced crime, adding that through a well-crafted management system, he had united all groups in the multi-ethnic state. She said the campaign team had been interfacing with critical stakeholders of APC to present his development credentials, which would be replicated at the federal level. “Going into the presidential primaries, we are on a good footing. If you plant a good seed very early, you will reap better than those who plant late,” she noted.