• No N6bn judgment against ex-NIMASA boss, says legal team The Supreme Court yesterday dismissed a suit filed by a former Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dakuku Peterside, asking the apex court to set aside a N6 billion damages awarded against him for defaming the character of former Rivers State governor, Dr. Peter Odili. The appeal filed by Peterside was dismissed for lacking merit in a unanimous judgment by a five-member panel prepared by Justice Adamu Augie but delivered by Justice Adamu Jauro. Odili had in October 2016 sued Peterside at the Federal High Court in Port-Harcourt, claiming that the erstwhile NIMASA boss defamed his character during a press conference in Port Harcourt by alleging that he (Odili) plotted Governor Nyesom Wike’s victory at the Supreme Court because Odili’s wife, Mary, was at that time a Supreme Court justice. Odili, however, described the statement credited to Peterside as false and malicious, demanding N6 billion as damages for character defamation. Odili’s lawyer, Kanu Agabi, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), had urged the Supreme Court to dismiss the appeal by Peterside and give judgment in his client’s favour while Peterside’s lawyer, Damian Okoro, asked the court to allow the appeal.   Abubakar, Sani, Udofia, others pick APC guber tickets     Scandal rocks quarantine centre as stranded deportees cough…     How marabout duped two sisters of N5.4m to exorcise marine…   Reacting to the judgment yesterday, the legal team of Peterside clarified that the Supreme Court did not pronounce N6 billion or any such judgment against the ex-NIMASA boss. The legal team explained in a statement that the apex court only dismissed an appeal by Peterside challenging the decision of the Court of Appeal to sustain an earlier dismissal of his preliminary objection to the service processes adopted by the litigant. The team explained that the origin of the matter was Suit. No. PHC/810/2016 between Hon. Dakuku Adol Peterside V. Dr. Peter Odili, brought against Peterside by a former Governor of Rivers State, Dr. Peter Odili, before a Rivers State High Court in Port Harcourt presided over by Hon. Justice Iyaye Laminkara, who was then the Chief Judge of the state. The team said: “Not satisfied with the processes of service, Peterside had filed an objection through a notice of preliminary objection challenging the service of the originating processes. “In her ruling, Justice Laminkara dismissed the objection, ruling that the services were properly instituted. But dissatisfied with the court’s stand, Peterside approached the Court of Appeal, Port Harcourt Division, which, however, dismissed his appeal, ruling that the lower court was right after all. “Peterside, still not satisfied, filed Appeal No. SC. 667/2018 before the Supreme Court which was determined today by the Supreme Court. So by today’s decision of the apex court, the Port Harcourt High Court can now hear the substantive case.”