Former Zamfara Governor Senator Ahmed Yerima, has joined the 2023 presidential race. Yerima, who spoke to State House Correspondents after his meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari, said he was seeking the presidential ticket of the All Progreasives Congress (APC) to improve on efforts of the current administration. Speaking about his plans to set things straight for Nigeria, Yerima said he would be focusing on three critical areas of needs, including insecurity, poverty and ignorance. Yerima, who caught national attention when he introduced the Shari’a legal code as Zamfara Governor, said: “I’m sure every Nigerian knows that Mr. President has done his best and today, our challenges are still new developments of insecurity; armed banditry. Boko Haram is gone, but we have new challenges of insecurity, armed banditry and poverty, because of the world economic problems. And there is still a lot of ignorance in our society. “I have three points as well; to fight insecurity, fight poverty, and ignorance. Some people think that if you say ignorance, you’re talking of only western education, no. Illiteracy is different from ignorance. There are people who are professors, who are well educated in western terms, but they’re ignorant of their society.   Nigeria’s crude oil reserves increase to 37.04bb     Kano APC crisis: Supreme Court dismisses appeals by…     Supreme Court upholds Rivers’ claim to 17 oil wells in…   “That is why you see people talking about rotational presidency, as if it is an allocation of power. Constitution of Nigeria is very clear, every Nigeria is qualified to contest so long as he reaches age prescribed on different offices. “So, every Nigerian is qualified so long as he follows the constitutional provisions of this country to contest for any office and aspire to in any office of this country,” Responding to a question on his perception in some quarters as a religious extremist following the decision of his administration to enforce the Shari’a Islamic legal code on the State, he said he did not violate the Constitution as he never compelled anyone to abandon their religion to follow Islam. “On the issue of Shari’a, I’m a Muslim and I say everywhere I go, that I am a Muslim and I want to die as a Muslim. Like I said, I’m going to fight the problem of ignorance and this is one of it. People don’t know, a lot of people don’t know that the Constitution of Nigeria, Section 38, has provides for freedom of religion, including freedom to change your religion, if you want to. To practice alone, or in community with others, in private or in public. “As a Governor of the State, I followed the constitutional provision, prepared a law, sent it to state assembly and they pass it into law and I implemented what the Constitution of Nigeria has given me the powers to do and even in the Zamfara State, I have never, never required or asked or forced any Christian to follow Islamic faiths because I would have done an unconstitutional act. “If I’m elected, by the grace of God, I’m going to be elected under the Constitution and I’m going to take an oath to protect and defend the Constitution of Nigeria. So, I will never do anything unconstitutional.”