Two developments the penultimate week, gave Nigerians cause to worry about the sincerity of President Muhammadu Buhari-led federal government’s avowed fight against corruption. The first was the pardon of two convicted politically exposed persons, former Governors Joshua Dariye of Plateau State, and Jolly Nyame of Taraba State. The pardon elicited anger and condemnation from Nigerians, with many commentators asking the federal government to also release other persons in the custody of the Nigerian Correctional Centres, convicted for lesser offences. After all, what is good for the goose is good for the gander. Dariye was convicted by Justice Adebukola Banjoko, of the High Court of Federal Capital Territory, on 15 out of 23 count charge on June 12, 2018, and sentenced to 14 years imprisonment. The sentence was reduced to 10 years by the Court of Appeal, and affirmed by the Supreme Court. He was tried and convicted of misappropriating a whopping N1.126 billion ecological fund of Plateau State, using an unregistered company which he controlled, as conduit. On his part Jolly Nyame was convicted by the same learned Justice Banjoko, on a total of 27 out of 41 corruption charges involving humongous N1.6 billion ecological and sundry funds, on May 30, 2018. He was handed a 14 years jail term, after a long trial, but the sentence was reduced to 12 years by the Court of Appeal and affirmed by the Supreme Court. The judge described the two former governors in very uncomplimentary terms, for the brazen acts of corrupt enrichment of themselves and their cronies to the detriment of the states they governed. So the release of the two former governors convicted of criminal misappropriation of state resources, after a laborious trial that cost the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) a whopping N11 million, speaks volume of the sensibilities of President Buhari and the National Council of State, to the matter of corrupt practices in government. Many have interpreted the move as a strategy by the All Progressive Congress (APC)-led federal government to woo voters sympathetic to Dariye and Nyame in Plateau and Taraba, respectively. This column believes that while the move may enthral the supporters of the two former governors in the two states, it will reverberate negatively amongst other Nigerians in other states across the country. As tenuous as Buhari’s credentials in the fight against corruption may be, he could until this ill-conceived pardon still lay claim to fighting the greatest scourge of our nation, with the conviction of the two governors as a showcase. But now that he has released the duo, it will be a joke, for the Buhari presidency to claim to be averse to corrupt enrichment by government officials. Of course, the debate about whether President Buhari has the power to pardon the two former governors provides an interesting perspective. In granting pardon to Dariye and Nyame, the president relied on S.175(1)(a) of the 1999 constitution as amended. The section provides that the President may: “grant any person concerned with or convicted of any offence created by an Act of the National Assembly a pardon, either free or subject to lawful conditions.”   ASUU: Confronting the lies and propaganda     Leadership and nagging paradox of four generations     Election-eve games   So, if the two former governors were tried by the EFCC for an offence created by the law of a state, the president may have goofed in granting them pardon under S.175, reproduced above. Of course it will not matter that the EFCC which prosecuted the two is created by an Act of the National Assembly. But in granting them pardon, the president would have been guided by his appointees who have the requisite expertise in law. Or could it be that the President was deliberately misguided by his aides? If so, that would be a further confirmation that the enemies of the president are amongst his key advisers. The pardon of the former governors will also demoralise the anti-corruption agencies, particularly those who have devoted physical and emotional energy to fight the war against corruption. This column recalls how Joshua Dariye before his sentencing, openly rebuked Rotimi Jacobs, SAN, when he opposed the plea of allocotus made by the defence counsel. Psychologically deflated and emotionally asphyxiated, the officers who have risked their lives fighting those they thought are the enemies of the country, may going forward have a rethink, as they will see that fighting corruption against the political elites is an expensive senior joke. The senior joke being that corruption is a common disease amongst public officials, and those in power now, know that they are not better than their two convicted colleagues. So, by releasing Dariye and Nyame, the regime of Buhari, just like President Goodluck Jonathan, who pardoned former governor Diepreye Alamieyeseigha are reaffirming the precedence, should they themselves be convicted for corrupt practices after they have left power. Unfortunately for President Buhari, despite the best efforts of his Minister for Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, and spokespersons, Femi Adesina, and Garba Sehu, who have been promoting him as anti-corruption czar, history may yet record him as an encourager of corruption, instead of a fighter against corruption. This development may further provide the erudite Bishop Matthew Hassan Kukah, one more arsenal, should the president’s spokesmen take up the challenge of a public debate, over the performance of the Buhari regime. The other indication of licence to loot in the past week, is the incredulous amounts demanded by the political parties, to participate in the 2023 general elections. One analyst tabulated the four-year income of the president, and compared same to the 100 million naira for expression of interest and Presidential primary form, demanded by the APC, and the difference is simply outrageous. So, the money spent to participate in the election, is far in excess of what the president would legitimately earn in four years. By demanding such a humongous sum, the popularly acclaimed Not Too Young to Run Act, for which President Buhari received praises have been rendered nugatory. Even when they are to pay part of the monies demanded, the question is where will they get the huge sums they are supposed to pay, after the deduction? The challenge is also applicable to the female aspirants, who may have been disenfranchised by the huge monies demanded by the parties to participate in the elections. It does not matter that those who have declared interest to run, give the impression that the monies they are paying were raised by well-wishers. While a few of them may actually have such supporters, most of such claims are charades meant to deceive the public. Moreover, those well-wishers who have raised such huge sums are doing so with the belief that they will be rewarded with tainted opportunities, should their candidates win the election.