A social trading platform for cash and crypto, Bundle, said despite the regulatory pushbacks on crypto trading, it has continued to do well like others. Its CEO Emmanuel Babalola, who spoke during a forum to mark the company’s second anniversary and launch of its first mobile app, said the solution has developed over the years as one of the easiest crypto trading platforms in Africa. Starting with only three assets at its initial launch, it has grown to over 80 assets and over 700,000 users across Nigeria and Ghana. Babalola said despite the regulation, Bundle has catered to the needs of its user base through the integration of Cashlink, a P2P payments platform, which has served as a gateway for crypto to cash transfers. With over a million transactions within its first seven months, the success of Cashlink can be attributed to the escrow system which mitigates fraud from either side of the transaction. “With the aim of helping users mitigate loss during a bear crypto market, they built simple tools to help users by releasing Bundle Leveraged Token (BLVTs) series that gives users the ability to hold leverage on a cryptocurrency that can either multiply the loss or profit on an asset. “To promote the wider adoption of cryptocurrencies and further set the minds of people at ease, trading should be as easy and convenient as possible for all people. This means that crypto services should be offered on multiple platforms with all users in mind and not just some.   Racing to catch-up with emerging technologies     IHS Towers, Oyo partner on innovation hub     5G: broadband target faces 167,000km of fibre deficit   “As Bundle continues to grow, the need to evolve into its original mission becomes pertinent — a social finance app making crypto accessible to everyone. Bundle will be expanding across the continent this quarter which signifies the first step in the right direction, alongside implementations to pivot into a social finance product,” he said. On multiple scam accounts, the CEO explained that the team is working with the risk and compliance team to remove these phishing accounts. They are also set to release a 2FA security feature to further protect its users. Bundle users are implored to ensure that any dealings on Twitter and Instagram are with their official handles. They wouldn’t ask you to click on any link or share your OTP with them. As regards the persistent downtime that the app has been having, Bundle released a letter from their CEO in a blogpost highlighting the cause of the issue, steps that have been taken and how the company hopes to rebuild the trust of the users of the app. Bundle reiterated its promise of customer centricity by giving its users an optional way to trade with its newly released web app. The web app provides an alternative way for both existing and new users to explore their curiosities on the go. Visitors to the website will also be able to learn and stay informed with the latest news from Bundle through the blog. The new website also teases the launch of Bundle Futures.