Canada-based singer, Stephanie Otobo, has threatened to release videos proving her old claim of an alleged sexual relationship with General Overseer of Omega Fire Ministries Apostle Johnson Suleman. Otobo, in a series of tweet on Monday, shared screenshots of video chats she claimed were of herself and the cleric. Otobo repeated old claims of her alleged amorous relationship with the preacher. She accused the cleric of poisoning and trying to kill her, adding that he used ‘juju’ against her. Otobo and Suleman were first in the news in 2017 when the singer sued the preacher for assault and sexual harassment. One of the screenshots she shared on her Twitter handle, showed a man holding his manhood. Otobo claimed that the person was Suleman. Another screenshot showed Otobo exposing her breasts while on an alleged video call with Suleman. Otobo said: “If these screenshots were fake, how did I get his pics that aren’t public in the first place and how come I’m the first to release this kind of pics of him? He has changed his hairstyle twice since I came out to speak up with receipts. He has done a lot to appear different. “If the d*ck pic isn’t his, what is he gonna say about the scar on his left thigh? His wife can’t deny that scar. How did I know he has a scar on his left thigh if we didn’t have intimacy? Lol. If he’s denying it, he should open up his thigh let’s see. His nails too say it all.” She alleged that the cleric tried to stop her from progressing, and almost ended her life. “Some people kept on wondering why I came out exposing Apostle Johnson Suleman, and why I haven’t let go ever since. The truth is that I never planned to. He pushed me to the wall and the only way I could fight back was to cry out and make everything known. The devil smiles.   I may die soon, says Elon Musk     How to become a good cross dresser, by Bobrisky     I’m not bi-s3xual, says ex-BBNaija’s Emmanuel   “Apostle Johnson Suleman tried using police to shut me up because I visited Nigeria to feature Timaya in a song. I already paid Clarence Peters for the visuals of the song before Oga arrested me, cos I refused to obey him to go back to Canada. He wanted me to amount to nothing. “He did everything to stop my music career. He was scared that I’ll be influential. He even poisoned me, paid my friends to set me up and bribed some members of my family to assassinate me. Lured me to come to make a false confession at his church in Auchi that I lied against him. “That it was other pastors and politicians that wanted to bring him down. How come no name was mentioned? I only did that cos the pressure was too much and everyone had left me to suffer alone. No support. I had to give up at that moment to have the opportunity for reinforcement. “This man has done everything to end my life but God is not dead, this video is the complete story of how everything happened and how it’s going lately. I’ll release a comprehensive video of everything that happened and the answers to questions.” In January 2018, Otobo accused Suleman of impregnating her and breaching a promise to marry her. She claimed she had sex romps with the pastor in Italy, New York and Nigeria. Suleman denied the allegations and threatened to sue a news medium which published her allegations. He also threatened Festus Keyamo, SAN, whose law office in Lagos represented Otobo, demanding an apology and the payment of N1 billion to him for blackmail and injury. In March 2017, Otobo was arraigned in a Tinubu Magistrates’ Court, Lagos with one Wisdom Godstime on a three-count charge bordering on conspiracy, intent to steal, blackmail and threat to life. It was alleged, among others, that the defendants with intent to extort money from Suleiman, accused him of committing adultery with Otobo and also promised to marry her. The defendants pleaded not guilty to the charge. Magistrate Bukola-Ayeye granted them N100,000 bail.