The Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) has said it has put in place modalities to conduct the 2022 National Personnel Audit of early childhood education (ECCDE) centres, primary and junior secondary schools in the country. The last time the commission carried out the national personnel audit was in 2018. Executive Secretary of the Commission, Dr. Hamid Bobboyi, made this known on Thursday in Abuja during a high-level consultative meeting on the 2022 National Personnel Audit (NPA) of all basic education institutions in Nigeria. He lamented that the dearth of data on basic education had remained a major challenge, saying education planners and decision makers have had to make do with data that are not up-to-date or are outright decision-makers falsified. The executive secretary said the exercise would enable the commission to collect accurate data on school enrolment, number of teachers and other personnel in the system as well as facilities, among others. According to him, the planned exercise would be carried out in collaboration with State Governments and the Federal Capital Territory in all schools offering full or elements of basic education. Bobboyi said the exercise would create a situation whereby proper planning was in place, adding that this would put an end to the waste of resources through overestimation.   PEARL Awards set to host 25th Edition     Community leader Agbator for burial Friday     Pernod Ricard shines at Kantar awards   He warned that Nigeria’s school data for any particular period should be a national data that is available for use in and outside the country, adding that from the schools to the federal level, and at all times, the number of characters of learners, teachers and other personnel in schools must be in sync. The UBEC boss said: “Our desire after the exercise was to put in place a structure that would be updating the 2018 database on a continuous basis and through this, build a culture of data generation and management down to the school level. This could not be achieved due to the absence of facilities and personnel at the different levels.” He said the successful conduct of the exercise would give Nigeria credible basic school data that can be quoted and used with confidence all over the world. He said: “One can hardly over emphasize the importance of up-to-date data, accurate and reliable data in the implementation of educational programmes. Data enables us to plan effectively towards a systematic achievement of the educational objectives, track progress made, identify the strengths and weaknesses of implementation strategies and form the basis of making informed decisions. ”The absence of current and reliable data often leads to faulty plans whose objectives are difficult to achieve. ”The 2018 exercise has been the most comprehensive because, unlike the previous two exercises which were limited to public schools only, it covered all categories of public and private basic education institutions. ”The outcome of the exercise was generally acknowledged to have met the global standard and become accepted as a useable tool for planning and tracking basic education in Nigeria ”We can ensure a successful conduct of the exercise so that Nigeria can have credible basic school data that can be quoted and used with confidence all over the world.”