Allianz Group is accelerating the deployment of its climate strategy and has announced new commitments in its core business and operations. The company stated that it will limit the greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) deriving from Allianz’s sites and activities in over 70 markets to net-zero by 2030, instead of 2050  that it planned. Member of the Board of Management of Allianz SE, Investment Management and Sustainability, Günther Thallinger said they would limit the greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) deriving from Allianz’s sites and activities in over 70 markets to net-zero by 2030, instead of the 2050 as originally planned.   Heirs Insurance promotes staff wellness     Keeping PFAs on their toes     Pension complaints and solutions   According to him, for proprietary Investment and Property & Casualty (P&C) businesses, as of January 1, 2023, Allianz will no longer invest in or underwrite new single-site or stand-alone oil and selected gas risks, oil and gas activities related to the Arctic and the Antarctic or extra-heavy oil and ultra-deep-sea risks. He said: “By the start of 2025, Allianz will require a robust ‘net-zero by 2050’ commitment from the largest hydrocarbon producers as a pre-condition for company-level insurance coverage and investments. “In view of the geopolitical situation, the reliable energy supply for households and companies must be reprioritised in the short term. Policymakers must work together with the business community to define conditions that enable planning, and, in addition, enable the acceleration of renewables globally. However, we should not lose sight of the serious consequences of climate change. With these new guidelines, Allianz is strengthening its promise to contribute to an orderly decarbonisation of the economy. “Allianz is committed to actively driving the transition towards renewable energy sources, supported by significant underwriting and investment capacity and appetite for renewable risks. Consequently, green energy projects of oil and gas companies will not be restricted in any way.’’