Amusa Adisa became a household name in Nigeria football in the 1970s after his heroic penalty save as a goalkeeper in the great WNDC team against Enugu Rangers at the 1971 Challenge Cup final. It was here that Adisa caught the attention of the then national team handler German Heinz Maroztke and the then lanky goalkeeper did not disappoint as he  made a winning debut against Sierra Leone in a friendly match on 13th February 1971.The former goalkeeper trainer of the Super Eagles who turned 82 during week , spoke extensively abouthis chequered  football career  even as he lamented  over the  current state of football in the country. OLALEKAN OKUSAN reports .   At 82, Amusa Adisa never veiled his displeasure over the state of football in the country. The octogenarian whose exploits in the Nigeria league shot him to limelight in the 1970s was grateful to God for sparing his life till date. “There is no secret to my longevity in life as the only secret is with the almighty God that has been leading me as it is not by myself,” the octogenarian said in an interview with NationSport. “ If you are 18, you can keep going through the grace of God. God made it possible for me to be 82 because others have but you are keeping going through God. “Also, your way of life also matters because when someone is assisting you and you also must assist yourself in life. “ If God is preserving and prolonging your life, then you must also live within your domain. Your way of life matters in everything but basically everything depends on God Almighty.” He however, admitted that being a disciplined sportsman contributed to his activeness even at 82. He continued: “Anyone who does sports, eats very well, lives, and behaves like a sportsman has a longevity of life. Sports is like lubricants that oil your bones. “Even after I retired from football, some European coaches still doubt my age because of the strenuous things I do on the field of play. “When you do sports, your body constitution will change. It will not be that soft, it will harden muscles because you have already drained all the water in your system by doing physical exercises every day. So that muscle in you is a very strong muscle and that helps a lot. “ Then, you do kinetics and by this all your body joints are lubricated. I think and believe all the exercises I have done and still doing have helped to strengthen my bones and I am also enjoying God’s grace as well.” Adisa,  a former national team goalkeeper trainer, is not  happy with the way the domestic league is being run across the country, adding lack proper governance structure for clubs is one of the banes of Nigerian football. “I cannot imagine that by now most of the clubs are still being ran by the government because there is nowhere in the world where the government runs football,” he noted. “In Ghana, the government has nothing to do with owning clubs. “The likes of Asante Kotoko, Heart of Oaks, and a host of clubs in Ghana are privately run as some of them have been in existence for years but the reverse is the case in Nigeria as most of the teams are run by the government. “ It is unfortunate that teams like Stationery Stores fizzled out because of the family  Adebajo’s  family ; because I could remember that the late Chief Israel Adebajo wanted to use Stores as a model for running a professional football club in Nigeria. “He engaged the services of the best players in the league and the team was well ran. But what do we have these days, we have a government running our clubs and most of them are managed unprofessionally while players are owed salaries for several months. “ Have you ever wondered why our players go out and they perform well? This happened because of the welfare package for them. The welfare of players means nothing to those running the clubs as they are only interested in the result. How do you expect a player to perform well when he is being owed salaries and allowances for months? “Therefore, our league will not grow until the government hands-off from our football while corporate bodies and individuals should be encouraged to own teams in the league and by this, the welfare of players will be paramount for the players to deliver the result for such a team,” he said. For the national team, Adisa believes with support and time, indigenous coaches can tinker the senior national team. He offered:  “I think the major problem with the issue of coaching for the national team is that most coaches are not given enough time to build a team before being sent packing.   COMING TO AMERICA: NPFL STARS GUN  FOR  EAGLES GLORY     Red-hot Osimhen rules out Napoli exit     CASH KINGS: Messi tops ten highest-paid athletes of 2022   “I  recalled that Chief Adegboye Onigbinde led a team made up of local players to AFCON 1984 in Cote d’Ivoire and the team got to the final. This was possible because the team was built around the local players, and they were together for months before any major competition. “When I was with Eagles, we used to camp for weeks in Portugal before major tournaments but what do we have these days? Players will arrive at camp three days to camp and you expect them to perform against those that have been together for months. “Also, the expectations from Nigerians are just too much for the coach to cope with because we are not always patient with this coach. Football is a teamwork and not individual sport so the team must play together and understand one another on the pitch of play to be able to deliver. “Look at teams from Central African Republic, Comoros Island and a host of others that are doing well, the majority of them are dominated by local based players who must have been training and working together for months under the guidance of the coach. “ Do you expect your team that only comes together a few hours before a major match to beat a team that has been together for weeks and months? “So, we must give any coach we employ enough time to build the team so that the players can understand themselves on the pitch. Most of our players do well in their various clubs because they have been together for months but the national team takes time to gel so we must also give anybody we employ enough time to build the team,” he counselled. Reflecting on his heyday, he admitted that what played out in the 1971 Challenge Cup final  remains memorable in his active career. “I cannot forget what happened in 1971 where I saved a penalty that earned WNDC the Challenge Cup title in that year. The Challenge Cup that year was very unique because that was the first time it was being organized professionally for clubs. “I was playing for WNDC while Rangers  was made up of top players and this was when Nigeria was just coming out from the Civil War. “ So, it was a tense match as we were leading 2-1 and Enugu Rangers was awarded a penalty in the dying minutes of the encounter. I think the timing of the penalty was what made the save very important for me. “Also, I was up against Godwin Achebe, a household name in Nigerian football and a player who at 19 in 1959 had the honour as a schoolboy to captain Nigeria on his debut. “Before the match, Achebe had never been known to miss a penalty kick. He was to take the penalty almost at the dot of regulation time in this hectic Challenge Cup final but as he took the shot, I dived full length and parried the ball to safety and that turned out to be the most memorable penalty kick save in the history of the Challenge Cup especially considering the time the penalty was awarded to Rangers. “WNDC won the match  2-1 and that was a moment I would always remember in my career . “ Before I retired as coach of the University of Ilorin football team, we travelled to play against Federal University of Owerri (FUTO) and the Vice Chancellor of the school came to ask ‘if I am the same Amusa Adisa that saved the penalty in the 1970s’  and’ I said, yes’. “ He was surprised to see me still active and that is what football can do for an individual in life,” he recalled with fond memory. Having tutored some of the finest goalkeepers in the country, Adisa said Nigeria still has quality goalkeepers that can rival others in the world adding, such goalkeepers must be well trained in the art of modern goalkeeping to attain the pinnacle of their career.  “I was part of the people that pushed the likes of Vincent Enyeama in the national team and now we have most of the goalkeepers from Kwara Football Academy manning the goalposts of teams like Akwa United, 3SC and a host of others,” he  explained.“ A good goalkeeper must have a good height, sharp reflex, good technique, good use of the goal area as well as good communication. “Also, those in charge of the goalkeeping department in the national team must teach the right thing to the players for them to excel in goal. We have good goalkeepers in the local league, but we must just give them the opportunity to display their talents and we must also be ready to train them very well to be good in goal,” he noted. The former Head Coach of the University of Ilorin Football Team frowned at the idea of national team handlers not looking at the direction of schools when selecting players for national assignments. He continued: “I am still wondering why most national coaches don’t look at the university system when selecting players for the national team. “ The likes of Adokie Amasiamaka, Seyi  Olofinjana and Adeolu Adekola were undergraduates when they got a call-up to the national team. Apart from playing for the national team, they were also playing for clubsides. But these days, people tend to focus more on outside the school and this is very discouraging for those talents in higher institutions. In his active days, the former Police Officer had a long stint with Shooting Stars SC of Ibadan, formerly WNDC Stars and IICC and went on to play for Super Eagles as well as served as the Goalkeepers’ Trainer of the team between 2002-2006. “I want to be remembered as somebody who contributed immensely to the fortunes of Nigeria football as well as helping to unearth talented goalkeepers for the country,” he said.“Apart from the national team, I contributed to football in the university.”