No fewer than 500 members of Ohom Orba Ancient Kingdom in Udenu Local Government Area of Enugu State last weekend received free medical services from the Headquarters Ground Training Command, Nigerian Air Force (HQ GTC), Enugu, Enugu state. The free medical outreach, which held at an open ground in front of the palace of His Royal Highness, Igwe Everestus Onah, Uchenna 1 of Ohom Orba Ancient Kingdom, was organised by the Nigerian Air Force in commemoration of its 58th anniversary, otherwise known as the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Day 2022 celebration. The medical programme saw the beneficiaries, particularly women, children and the aged getting check-ups and medication which included free drugs, free eye, HIV and dental services as well as receiving hundreds of treated mosquito nets and deworming of children. Speaking with newsmen at the event, the Air Officer Commanding (AOC), Ground Training Command NAF, Enugu, AVM Ibikunle Daramola said that NAF was using the outreach to appreciate its host communities for supporting its services in the state.   Delta 2023: I’m best of all aspirants to succeed Okowa, says…     Anambra PDP crisis stops State Assembly Congress     Nnamdi Kanu: Bishop urges Buhari to embrace political…   Daramola, who was represented by Chief of Staff to the Command, AVM Michael Onyebashi, noted that the corporate social responsibility gesture was also being used to solicit further support and cooperation from the people of Enugu State going forward. He said that the NAF had contributed not only to the peace and security of Enugu State but had “built primary and secondary schools that vast majority of families have benefited from by their children attending our schools. “The medical outreach is to commemorate our 58th anniversary and thank our host communities for supporting us to succeed in the state. “Nigerian Air Force appreciates Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for his support and partnership. And we are assuring the governor that Nigerian Air Force will continue to ensure that there is peace and security that will guarantee safety of all in the state.”