Veegoddess’ grin is “expensive.” For the right price, it will slink into a sneer, while she receives pounding from a dog. The teenage TikTok user in Lagos, who went viral after claiming she slept with a dog for N1.7million, is simply one of the teenagers and young ladies who think it isn’t a big deal to have sexual relations with a dog. “I only slept with a dog, I didn’t kill somebody. You, in your life, you have done worse, and besides, have you seen N1.7million before? As if it’s a big deal. And mind you I’m not infected or anything. Stop dying on the matter, I’m enjoying the money,” she said. Although she has since recanted, claiming she was simply “cruising” (fooling around), the fact that she deemed such social harakiri status-enhancing depicts a new low for modern Nigeria and her dysfunctional family units. Through Veegoddess’ cocksure demeanour, her voice crashes through the video like a broken scream, and a silent shriek creeps into her narrative. The impact is chilling. It resonates in the tenor of Lagos sex vixen, Angela Jika’s carnal roar. Angela Jika (pseudonym) can “act anything.” She would submit to restraints and take a beating from a dominant male or dominatrix. She would feign a rapture by draping a slick, sultry mask on her face. For N50, 000, she would spread out and make a flora bed of the studio. Money teases off her inhibitions. Hard drugs too. She’d do anything to feed her drug dependence hence at age 17, she let two married neighbours sleep with her in the backseat of a car, while her boyfriend, Azuka, secretly filmed them. Now 22, she has become a prominent feature in porn movies. Angela’s role models in the industry are Ajibola Elizabeth aka Maami Igbagbo and Tobiloba Jolaoso, popularly known as Kingtblakhoc. It would be recalled that Jolaoso was arrested for allegedly recording a pornographic movie at the Osun Osogbo sacred grove on the outskirts of Osogbo, the Osun state capital, and a UN-designated World Heritage Site. From Jolaoso’s desecration of the sacred grove to his teeming fans, including Angela’s celebration of his “feat,” a generational conflict resounds with an instructive peal. It highlights the widening cultural chasms between the older generation and millennials channeling degenerate impulses in defiance of puritan values. Nigeria has a thriving, underground porn industry but both the government and citizenry are living in denial of it.  Astonishingly, for a country, that’s deeply religious, and prominently split along Muslim, Christian faiths,  Nigeria has never outlawed pornography, not even in the 1999 Constitution. While the country’s criminal code slackly defines “obscenity” as any article whose effect, “taken as a whole is such as to tend to deprave and corrupt,” those exposed to it, Lagos State has, however, outlawed the public display of graphic sexual material. But due to a lack of federal law against public broadcast of smut movies, pornographic content can be accessed online at any time by anyone including teenagers and minors. Until recently, all domestic porn was heterosexual but there has been increasing production of same-sex porn. While homosexual activity attracts a 14-year sentence in the country, a couple of actresses have engaged in lesbian porn to wide acclaim. More worrisome is the teenage girls’ enthrallment with bestial sex; more girls would sleep with a dog or a horse for “as little as N250, 000,” said a porn producer. Desperate actor-producers seeking to make a name and overnight renown, employ commercial sex workers, teenagers, and the underage as performers. Male performers make about a third of the money paid to their female colleagues. Their fee stagnates around N15, 000 to N20, 000 for a 5-10 minute feature.   Because our daughters sleep with dogs (1)     Boy apocalypse: Beyond the applause     The Chrisland sex fiasco   And the average porn actor must struggle to sustain the singular talent of keeping an erection for long periods of time. Consequently, some actors inject Alprostadil or Caverject into an open vein in their penis. The average cost of the drug is N15, 000 for a single chamber dose and N30, 000 for a dual-chamber dose. It used to be N28, 000. Not many actors can afford that. So, they resort to taking Viagra and local alcoholic beverages mixed with cannabis and other psychotropic substances; anything to get them high and hard, very fast. Some actors who inject, keep an open wound at the base of their penis through which they inject the stimulant into their organ. They do this to maintain a single needlepoint on the penis. The downside of this is that they bleed on their onscreen female partners thus increasing their chances of contracting Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs). Auditions comprise another crisis point in the porn business. The glut of aspiring porn actors furnishes smut filmmakers with a vast array of easy girls for the picking. Performers in pornographic material are often female victims of sex trafficking. They are often forced to recreate pornographic scenes by abusers adept at mental and economic exploitation. My investigations within and outside Nigeria, from the streets of Lagos to the shanties and underground brothels of Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire, revealed how Nigerian sex traffickers use pornography to groom the victims of sex trafficking. Despite its apparent dangers, porn addiction has become pop culture, cutting through swathes of conservative norms. As it knifes through the country, cyberspace becomes a garish, raunchy boulevard; a theatre of libertine delight, fetishes, and rendezvous for voyeurs and porn stars. It also offers a negotiation point for the addicted desiring real physical action. The social space thus unfurls as an esplanade of taboos and fetishes that expands and contracts to temptation and patronage. Although porn producers talk shop about running tests on actors to prevent STDs spread, there have been cases of infections in major studios. Notwithstanding, porn allows the youth, safely removed from the traditional norms and social etiquette, to be voyeurs of a frighteningly prejudiced world of taboos and sexual stereotypes, where all the conventions of civilized society cease to exist. And viewers are invited to slum in this world of debauchery. On the flip side, most Nigerian porn is digitally airbrushed to hide the squalor beneath. Competition is fierce. Girls bring their friends and earn kick-back. So, a lot of girls are desperate to do anything. The lighting in most films is coarse. Pubic hair is shaved off to give the actresses the look of supple divas – warts and all. Yet the staple is often poor acting. The plastered bodies, exaggerated moans and facial contortions, the erections that never go down, and the evidently limp male organs been forcibly put to work, heighten porn’s unreality. Then, there is the dank smell of human bodies, the thump of studio filth, and the indelicate tenderness of onscreen partners. But despite an upbeat campaign to wean the addicted off porn, such homily hardly serves the interest of porn artistes like Jika. The 22-year-old has done a lot of gang-bang and “taken it up the arse.” She recently acted as a slave in a Bondage, Discipline, Dominance and Submission, Sadomasochism (BDSM) movie. She was tied up and gang-raped, severely beaten, and penetrated in every orifice. “Viewers would love it,” she enthused. Yet through her enthusiasm, she slunk into a flat, numbing monotone, like a victim of trauma; a cottony shriek drifted across her coarse, heavily made-up face, and for a moment, unmasked the scarred youngster cringing beneath the icon of the sultry siren. “What you just described, was it painful?” I asked. “Yes,” she answered quietly.