A BLOG, GISTMASTER on May 4 2022 published a story titled: Tinubu stops Sanwo-Olu second term bid, anoints Mustapha Olorunfemi has left Lagosians thinking about the All Progressives Congress (APCs) fate at the 2023 gubernatorial election in Lagos State. Former Lagos Governor Akinwunmi Ambode was unable to get the second term ticket as Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu won the APC primary election in 2018. Sanwo-Olu emerged winner of the primary with 970,851 votes ahead of Ambode with 72,901 votes. The purported anointed aspirant Abdul-Ahmed Olorunfemi Mustapha in 2015 was appointed as Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Science & Technology. He was redeployed in the same capacity to the Ministry of Wealth Creation & Employment in May 2016 and thereafter to the Office of Overseas Affairs and Investment (Lagos Global) in February 2017.  Later redeployed to the Governor’s Office Parastatal Monitoring Office in November 2017 and Office of Civic Engagement in June 2019, he retired as the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources in 2021. Mustapha has maintained a very low profile for years in civil service but his name is being shared on several Whatsapp groups with prominent and influential Lagosians as members. He is a member of the National Black Association of America (MBA), Project Management Institute of America, Newark, New Jersey Chapter and an expert in Information Technology/Financial Systems. GISTMASTER is a lifestyle blog owned by one Niyi Tabiti with a Twitter account @niyitabiti having 1,622 followers, following 583 with 152.1K tweets at the time of filing this report.  The blog, founded in 2007 reports about business, personality, brands, technology, fashion, and travel. The report claimed a supposed media platform News of The People reported the story. However, a fact check by our reporter shows there was no media platform with that name. A fact check on the GISTMASTER blog also shows that the story is not plausible because mainstream media like The Nation, Vanguard, Punch, etc reported on April 18 2022 the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC), the highest decision-making body of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos endorsed Babajide Sanwo-Olu for the second term in office. It was also observed that what GISTMASTER reported was not published by any mainstream media on paper, television, or radio as well as any online news platform. There was only a single quote  credited to an “insider” who said: “politicking at Bourdilon simply said mr Governor has been told to forget the ambition just as the way he was asked to obtain a nomination form in 2019.”  Also, a fact check by our reporter shows there was no other evidence to back up the report by GISTMASTER. On the blog, the pop-up ad on the page in one minute is up to five, and in three minutes up to 18. Using the TruthNest tool,  Niyi Tabiti joined Twitter on 20th July 2009. His weekly activities show that nothing was posted between 30th April 2022, and 2nd May 2022.   High Inflation, rising food prices in Nigeria     Five renamed major landmarks in Lagos     Five ways to identify an impending building collapse   Then on 3rd May 2022, he was active with a rise on 4th of May, 2022 when GISTMASTER posted the report till May 7, 2022. Normal users usually post a varying number of tweets per day and going by this trendline, it indicates a bot or a spam account. @niyitabiti tweeter account was active during the day and less (no action at all) during the night. This unchanged behaviour during the day could indicate a bot account. And his post frequency per day since 20-07-2009 is 33 and recently, he has posted 54 tweets per day. While his only hashtag in the last 2,200 posts was #Osinbajo. TruthNest was also used to show that @niyitabiti has no mention, no post was retweeted or quoted in his last 2,200 posts. There is also a 100% indication that the @niyitabiti account may be a bot using the TruthNest digital tool. This indicates no interaction with others, almost all tweets contain links as well as a similar time gap between a series of successive tweets.   Another digital tool, Twitonomy shows that after Niyi Tabiti @niyitabiti tweeted the report, three other handles Daily Dispatch Newsp @DailyDispatch1 with 118 followers, Abuja Press @abujapress_ with 8, 610 followers, and Alex Report @alexreport_ with 1, 179 followers. None of them had a like, retweet, or quote retweet. A background check using the HOAXY tool shows @niyitabiti Twitter account having a 4.7/5 bot score with the account indicating that he has quoted nobody, was quoted by nobody, has mentioned nobody, was mentioned by nobody, and has retweeted nobody. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu was on Friday, May 6, 2022 endorsed for second term by Tinubu and other APC leaders.   The Governor’s official handle @jidesanwoolu  shared photographs Tinubu raising his hand and his deputy, Obafemi Hamzat. It tweeted: “Earlier today at the Lagos APC Stakeholders meeting, I accepted with much gratitude my endorsement for a second term in office by all party leaders. My special appreciation to our leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for his guidance. “I also thank the GAC leaders for their earlier endorsement and for standing by our administration. It is now time for party members across the state to foster cohesion and work for the APC’s success in the State and at the federal level. “It is time to come together as determined party members and show genuine love towards our National Leader, who is our priceless symbol in Lagos. We must ensure that this house is in order and fully united ahead of the national primaries.”   Conclusion The report went viral due to the personality of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu who are 2023 presidential and gubernatorial aspirants respectively. The report is a claim of fact that could not be verified and one directed at discrediting Tinubu. If left unchallenged, it will potentially have a far-reaching audience just like what has been done in the social media community and Lagos State at large. The report indicates a threat to social cohesion whereby it can lead to physical harm, violence and cause conflict among the loyalist of governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Bola Ahmed Tinubu. It can also distort the All Progressives Congress (APC) political system in Lagos State by allowing the opposition parties to have an edge in the 2023 election. Also, Niyi Tabiti @niyitabiti according to the digital tools used for fact-checking this report, shows 100% bot which account cannot be trusted as well as his blog GISTMASTER for spreading altered, misleading content, and false information.