The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, and Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Isiaka Amao, hosted troops of ‘Operation Hadin’ to a luncheon in Maiduguri, Borno State. Yahaya said the Eid gift he expected from the troops was to neutralise more terrorists, bandits, kidnappers and other violent criminals. “I urge you all not to relent, but go with all vigour, more determination and more aggressiveness. We shall all be ruthless with terrorists and kidnappers,” he said. Noting that security challenges are not peculiar to Nigeria, the COAS assured them that the troops on ground in various theatres of operations were equal to the task. Air Marshal Amao said the luncheon was to appreciate efforts of the troops and to further boost their morale. Amao, who lauded the synergy between the military and other security agencies in the fight against terrorism, said the NAF remained committed to providing the needed support to sustain the onslaught against terrorists. “It is heart warming to note the huge successes from both Operation Desert Sanity and Lake Sanity. Hopefully, sanity will soon be restored in Sambisa, Mandara Mountains, Timbuktu Triangle and Lake Chad region…” Governor Babagana Zulum, who was represented by the Deputy Governor, Alhaji Umar Kadafur, lauded the service chiefs for always being in touch with the troops to boost their morale. He reiterated the government’s commitment to supporting the troops to succeed. “The people of Northeast, particularly Borno, epicentre of the insurgency, have seen a lot of positive results in the renewed ongoing operations, and urge you to sustain the tempo for maximum result,” Zulum said.   Aisha Buhari calls for patriotism, prayers  Wife of the President, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, called on Nigerians to be more patriotic and prayerful, to ensure lasting peace and sustainable development of the country. The first lady spoke after performing two raka’at congregational prayer at the Ansaruddeen Mosque in Abuja. She appealed to Nigerians to always show true sense of patriotism to ensure that Nigeria attained greatness for which it was destined.   Ooni seeks prayers for unity, peaceful coexistence Ooni of Ife Adeyeye Ogunwusi urged Muslim faithful to continue to pray for unity and peaceful coexistence in the country. Ooni, who received the Chief Imam of Ife, Alhaji AbdulSemiu AbdulHammed, and other Muslim faithful, at the palace yesterday, said ceaseless prayers for Nigeria would bring progress and development to the country. He also called for sustained prayers for leaders so they would continue to lead the country aright and ensure the success of the 2023 general elections. “Instead of complaining and condemning our leaders, we must continue to pray for them so that Nigeria can be free from banditry, insurgency, kidnapping, ritual killings and unemployment, among others,” Oba Ogunwusi said.   Elegushi prays for peaceful electoral process Oba Saheed Elegushi of Ikate-Elegushi Kingdom in Lagos State prayed that the 30-day period of piety would receive divine acceptance. He also prayed that Allah accepts all acts of worship and supplications during the holy month. The monarch admonished Muslims not to forget the significance of Ramadan but carry on with its numerous lessons and virtues. He also enjoined Nigerians to continue to pray for the country and its leaders, especially to ensure the processes leading to the next general elections were peaceful. The monarch noted that the country must always come first, regardless of the people’s political affiliations.   Shun campaign of calumny, Etsu Nupe tells politicians Chairman of the Niger State Council of Traditional Rulers, Etsu Nupe Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar, called on politicians to focus on germane issues rather than dwelling on campaigns of calumny against each other. He said they must play politics by its rule as they proceed with electoral activities, adding that doing otherwise would jeopardise the successful conduct of the polls. The monarch enjoined Muslims to reflect on the lessons of Ramadan and pray for the nation to overcome the fight against banditry, kidnapping, terrorism and other challenges.   ‘Continue in prayers and supplications’  Plateau State Governor Simon Bako Lalong said the Ramadan period was significant because it enabled the people to commit their personal affairs to God, and ask him to intervene in the many challenges of the state and Nation. Lalong urged them to continue in this attitude of prayer and supplication, as well as loving one another irrespective of religious, ethnic or other differences.   Ganduje frees 90 inmates in Kano Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje set 90 inmates of the Central Prison in Kano metropolis free after paying their fines. Ganduje, who visited the prison yesterday, said the gesture was part of the government’s efforts at alleviating sufferings of the common man, especially those inmates who could not afford the fine. The governor urged the released prisoners to be of good conduct after their reunion with their families. He also gave each N5,000 to enable them transport themselves home.   Sani Bello restates commitment to ending terrorism  Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani Bello restated his commitment towards overcoming insecurity in the state. Bello said the state will keep up the continuous onslaught in its fight against terrorists and terrorism in the state. He said: “I reassure all citizens of my commitment to making sure that insecurity becomes a thing of the past. Significant successes have been recorded, and I pledge that the state will continue to relentlessly work closely with all security agencies, for enduring peace in the state.”   Buni: let virtues of Ramadan continue  Yobe State Govenor Mai Mala-Buni urged the people to extend the teachings of the Ramadan period beyond the 30 days fast. “Ramadan has inculcated the virtues of patience, devotion, self-control, humility, kindness, forgiveness, altruism and other virtues of Islam that should be extended beyond the month of Ramadhan for a just and peaceful society.” Buni prayed Allah to accept the acts of worship and supplications made for the full return of peace and prosperity in Yobe State and Nigeria.     Insecurity: CAN declares three-day prayer     SSANU to Fed Govt: toying with our children’s future will…     National Assembly workers issue strike notice   ‘Let ramadam lessons be permanen’ Abia State Governor Okezie Ikpeazu urged Muslims to make the lessons of Ramadan a permanent part of their lives. “Ramadan is synonymous with the lessons of sacrifice, forbearance, tolerance, self control, love for others and peace, which are critical elements required for a united and peaceful life. “Use this period to pray for the sustenance of the peace and security in the state and the country.”   Peaceful celebrations in Kwara  Kwara State recorded a peaceful Eid as Muslim faithful converged on the Ilorin central praying ground to observe prayers. The Eid was attended by Governor AbdulRahman Abdulrazaq and Emir of Ilorin Dr Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari. Prayers were led by the Chief Imam of Ilorin, Sheikh Muhammad Bashir. Abdulrazaq said: “May all our prayers be accepted. My message is about peace and progress. That’s the most important thing. Once we have peace, we will have progress. We must continue to pray for peace and progress.”   Ortom calls for tolerance  Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State praised the Muslim ummah for their sacrifices and prayers for the nation during the fast. He also admonished them to sustain the spirit and lessons gained from the Ramadan to further promote the peace, unity and progress of the nation. He particularly urged both the Muslim and Christian faithful to pray for the nation to have a successful election and transition in 2023. The governor also called for religious tolerance between and among different adherents saying ‘from my knowledge and understanding, all religions preach peace, love and good neighbourliness.’   Masari wants credible leaders to replace him  Governor Bello Masari of Katsina State hoped he will be succeeded by credible leaders who would perform better than him. Masari said bringing in credible leaders who would be better should be everybody’s hope for Katsina State and Nigeria at large. “Let us thank God for sparing our lives to see another Ramadan through the end and to celebrate Eid. I think it is what we should all do. The people should continue to pray to Allah for the security situation to improve, and He will guide us.”   Bagudu harps on peace, unity Kebbi State Governor Atiku Bagudu emphasised the need for the people to unite despite the diversity in religion, cultures and ethnicity. According to him, nothing could compare to sustainable peace and unity of the nation. “Coincidentally, the Christians had observed Lent where they also fasted. I pray the coincidence will unify our country better and consolidate gains achieved in the country he,” said. Bagudu also admonished the Muslim faithful to sustain the prayers for peace and noble lessons learnt during Ramadan so as to continue to exhibit the fear of God.   ‘Pray for Nigeria to fulfil potential’ Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi called on Muslim faithful to reflect on the significance of the Eid and offer prayers for Nigeria to overcome its challenges and fulfil its potential. The governor described Eid as the crowning of the blessings received during Ramadan which had drawn the faithful closer to the Allah. He also urged the Muslim Ummah to pray for peace, harmony and tranquillity before, during and after the June 18 governorship election, saying that God answers the prayers of the faithful.   Oyetola: Let’s play according to the rules Governor Gboyega Oyetola of Osun State urged politicians to play according to the rules of the game, and avoid anything that could threaten the peace of the state. Oyetola said politics should not be seen as a do-or-die affair, hence the need for loyalists and supporters of candidates and political parties to maintain decorum and guide their public conduct before, during and after the polls. The governor stressed the need for citizens to be the vanguard of peace and reflect same in their private and public conducts, noting that the state needs to guard and sustain its peace more than ever before.   El-Rufai: keep hope alive  Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State advised Muslim faithful to extend the spirit of Ramadan into everyday life and worship in the most noble tradition, while treating fellow humans with charity and generosity of spirit. The governor prayed to accept their acts of worship, abstinence and charity that characterised the period. El-Rufai also urged citizens to keep hope alive amidst the current challenges. He appealed to residents to continue to do their utmost for peace and harmony in all communities.   TUC to leaders: work positively to transform Nigeria The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) called on leaders to show concern about the challenges bedevilling the country and work towards her restoration. TUC President Quadri Olaleye also enjoined other Nigerians to spread joy, share love and ensure the country is peaceful and prosperous, adding that the celebration was another time for sober reflection. “In the spirit of Eid, we call on our political and religious leaders, as well as traditional rulers, to show compassion and love for Nigerians, and work to positively transform our dear country. “Above all, now that we have completed the fast we must ensure we do not go back to our old ways, else the exercise will end up becoming a ritual without spiritual significance,” he added.   Ogunbiyi greets Muslims  Osun State Governorship candidate of the ACCORD Party Akin Ogunbiyi in the July 16 election thanked God for his protection over all and sundry. Ogunbiyi said he was particularly happy because of the dedication of those who participated in Ramadan, and for devoting their prayers for the well-being of the state and Nigeria. The candidate admonished Muslim brothers and sisters not to relent in their efforts to ‘make sure we get to our Promised Land where milk and honey will become our birthright in Osun State’ “I felicitate with my Muslim brothers and sisters on this year’s Eid. I pray that all our prayers and supplications shall not be in vain, and God will continue to enrich us with uncommon blessings. “I call on our religious leaders to promote unity and peace in the state and Nigeria in order to recover our lost glory, and to continue prayers for our leaders and the progress of Osun State,” he said.