The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, and former Senate President, Ayim Pius Ayim,  have  lauded Nigerian workers on the occasion of this year’s May Day. Lawan according to a statement by his Special Adviser (Media), Ola Awoniyi, Abuja, also celebrated workers for their immense contributions to the development of the nation. “Nigerian workers deserve our appreciations and respects for their contributions to the development of our country. “I also salute them for their patriotic cooperation with the government and and other institutions in the collective efforts to address societal challenges. “There is no gainsaying the fact that Labour creates wealth for the nation, the more reason that the welfare of the Nigerian workers should always be accorded priority. “As Parliament, the National Assembly will continue to partner with the Organised Labour in addressing issues that affect workers and the generality of the Nigerian people. “Despite the prevailing challenges, the relationship between Labour and the Government should be cooperative in the overall interest of the country. “In the spirit of May Day, I appeal for a speedy and amicable resolution of the ongoing negotiations between the Federal Government and the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) to ensure that our universities reopen for learning and research.” Governor Sanwo-Olu in a statement issued on Saturday by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, in commemoration of the Year 2022 International Workers’ Day, described workers as the lifeblood of the economy. He commended all the workers in the state for their patience, strength, passion and commitment to the development of Lagos State and Nigeria as a whole, urging them not to relent in their positive contributions to the economy. “Happy Workers’ Day to all our committed and hardworking workers in the public and private sectors. We appreciate your contributions; they are indeed the lifeblood of our economy because without the contributions of the workers, no government can achieve its dream. “Nigerian workers are the fabric that makes up the society as a result of their tireless contributions to the socio-economic development of the country. We appreciate all workers, both in the public and private sectors for their patience, strength and commitment to the growth and development of our dear Lagos State and Nigeria. “As we join the rest of the world today, to celebrate International Workers’ Day, I implore all workers, especially those in Lagos State to remain productive and committed to duty. We must all join hands together to take Lagos to greater heights in line with our administration’s Greater Lagos agenda. “As a government, we will continue to make the welfare of workers our priority and ensure that we play our role in creating a good working environment for workers in the state. I congratulate all our workers on the 2022 International Workers’ Day,” says Governor Sanwo-Olu.   2023: Ministers declare Tinubu God’s choice at crusade     APC Convention: Media subcommittee denies spending N800m on…     2023: Ayade’s Commissioners, aides, LG bosses jostle for…   Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has assured that his administration will continue to prioritise workers’ welfare, which according to him, has continued to improve since the outset of the government. He also disclosed that Edo’s e-governance tool had improved work processes in the state, automating government’s systems and ensuring quality service delivery to Edo people. Obaseki stated these yesterday in an online statement to mark the 2022 Workers’ Day. He said: “As we mark Workers’ Day, I will like to appreciate workers in the state for their commitment to duty and diligence, which are responsible for the achievements recorded by my administration thus far. Edo people are, today, better off with the improved services provided by workers. “In the last six years, we have ensured that workers in Edo State are provided with the right environment, tools, and encouraged to deliver optimal services to the people. From reconstructing office buildings, such as the Blocks C & D of the secretariat complex to the introduction of e-governance systems and robust welfare packages, workers have experienced a dramatic change in the conditions in which they work in the state.” In his  special message marking May Day 2022, released in Abuja, Atiku enjoined workers and all Nigerians to know that he feels their pains and would do the utmost to better their lots, if given an opportunity to lead the country. He expressed concern that wages and salaries have remained static, food scarcity and inflation abound everywhere, children are out of school due to no fault of theirs, farmers can no longer go to farm for fear of bandits, traders cannot commute freely without being abducted, no energy to power industries and companies are shutting down geometrically; all conspired as burden on the citizenry. “But all hope is not lost. We need not be forlorn; time is ripe to vote out bad governance and Nigerian workers should lead the way with their voter’s cards at the next polls, to ensure the return of better days,” he said. Meanwhile, Atiku praised the resilience and determination of Nigerian workers, despite the myriad of man-made challenges confronting them. “Nigerians are hardworking and industrious people, who can compete with the best in the world given a conducive atmosphere and good work environment: good training, welfare package and enabling laws,” the PDP presidential aspirant said. He urged Nigerian workers to keep hope alive, cultivate a new spirit of patriotism that will be geared towards nation building and peace. Anyim commended Nigerian workers for their steadfastness and determination to put in their best despite their harsh economic realities of  the day. In his 2022 May Day message to workers released from his Campaign office in Abuja on Saturday, Ayim said: “As I celebrate with you on the occasion of this year’s Workers’ Day, I share with you the pains and agony of  Nigerian workers. On the one hand, uncontrolled Inflation has wiped out the purchasing power of the civil and public servants as well as the private sector workers. “On the other hand, the deplorable state of the Nigerian economy has made it almost impossible to raise salaries and wages to a commensurate level with the Inflation rate, thereby putting workers in further quagmire. “And yet, many workers in the country are grossly underemployed and underpaid in the face of galloping Inflation.”