FORMER Chairman of Oshodi-Isolo Local Government in Lagos State Afeez Ipesa-Balogun has picked his expression of interest and nomination forms for House of Representatives. Ipesa-Balogun, an aircraft engineer in Nigeria and United States, promised to improve the socio-economic situation of his constituency. He said: “I will fight for special status for Oshodi because Oshodi is uniquely positioned compare to other cities in Nigeria. For instance, over 90 million international travellers pass through the local government. Murtala Muhammed International Airport is in the local government, regardless of what people say it is actually in Oshodi. “Oshodi is the face of Nigeria for international travellers so, the Federal Government should pay special attention to Oshodi by funding the city. “ According to him, special funds should be set aside for development of Oshodi. “Before the regime of General Sani Abacha, the local government was collecting tenement from the airport. It was stopped by the Abacha administration. ‘’If I’m given the opportunity to serve as member of the lower chamber, I will mobilise my colleagues to get that funding back because each time you fly out of Murtala Muhammed International Airport, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) accesses some taxes.   Be committed to Nigeria’s development, AU-NEPAD urges…     Journalist alleges abduction attempt by govt agents     SAN sues lawmaker over unpaid professional fees   ‘’We deserve to have part of that tax, which will be more funding for development of people and infrastructure in the community,” he said He said insecurity challenges in Oshodi could be tackled by empowering and dialoguing with street urchins. “I will ensure the youth are employed. For those interested in entrepreneurship, we will fund them to start their businesses,” he said. Ipesa-Balogun promised to bring the good old days back as done during his administration as council chairman. “When I was council chairman, I built the gigantic Oshodi legislative building, tarred roads and beautified the landscape. ‘’Also, I rehabilitated schools, upgraded the primary health care centres, empowered widows and took care of the elderly. “One of my legacies was the monthly jogging in the community, tagged: Jogging with Mayor. I encouraged exercises and it was well embraced by the community. If elected, I intend to start Jogging with the Legislator.”