GOtv customers can look forward to European football action from the 2021/22 UEFA Champions League Final match between Liverpool and Real Madrid on a dedicated pop-up channel tomorrow. The Pay-TV giant introduced a pop-up channel to enable its customers subscribed to the GOtv Supa and GOtv Max packages to have access to content from Europe’s premier competition all-day long. The channel, which is set to go live from the 26th of May and close on the 30th of May, will broadcast the much-anticipated showdown between the two giants set to be played at the Stade de France in Saint-Denis, France. Both teams are no strangers to each other, the tie is a rematch of 2018 final which played out in Kyiv. Real Madrid emerged 3-1 winners courtesy of a Karim Benzema’s opener from a Loris Karius’s error and a spectacular brace from Gareth Bale.    PARIS 2O22: Cubana hosts Liverpool, Real UCL showdown     US Tour:  Peseiro parleys Eagles’ coaching crew     ITTF Africa Cup: Aruna  leads others into knockouts   The two teams also faced off over two legs at the quarter-finals of the competition last season where Real Madrid came out top. Real Madrid manager, Carlo Ancelotti has urged his team to avoid chasing another comeback when they face Liverpool on Saturday, after the three dramatic revivals on their way to the final. He said, “We don’t want another comeback. We hope it will be Liverpool who will be trying to come back.” Real Madrid could add a record-extending 14th Champions League title to its rich collection of European trophies if it could see off the challenge from the Merseyside team. Los Blancos’ road to the final came at the expense of other English opponents Chelsea and Manchester City, the Spanish champions will be seeking to add Liverpool to that list Liverpool is currently tied with Bayern Munich as joint-third on the list of highest winners of the Champions League trophy with six  trophies apiece. If the English giant defeats Real Madrid, it would move up on the list and become joint-second with AC Milan on seven  trophies.