The menace of commercial motorcycle riders popularly referred as ‘okada’ riders again was in the limelight penultimate week in Lagos. A hapless regular Nigerian, David Sunday, was the latest victim of rampaging ‘okada’ riders in the  Lekki area of Lagos.  The allegation is that a little argument with one of the riders had led to an ‘okada’-rider mob action that led to the lynching of the sound engineer. The Lagos State government swiftly announced a phased ban of ‘okada’ in six local governments and nine local  government development areas in the state from June 1. The local governments are: Eti Osa, Lagos Island,  Lagos Mainland, Ikeja, Apapa and Surulere.  In the interim, there is an order for security agencies to confiscate such commercial motorcycles based on the provisions of the Lagos State Transport Sector Reform Law of 2018. We commend the state government for taking a decisive action this time, following the tragic lynching  of Sunday. However, this is not the first time that such a ban would be placed on ‘okada’ riders in Lagos. The encroachment of the riders into the Lagos metropolis had increased steadily over the years. Former Governor Babatunde Fashola had once placed a ban on the riders in certain parts of the state. However, the succeeding government of former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode seemingly did not follow up effectively, and this led to the chaos that now exists. We have however observed that the problem is not about banning but the political will to implement the ban. Sunday was not the first victim of the recklessness of the ‘okada ‘riders. There are many others who are either dead, having been stabbed during an argument, or died through accidents as most of the riders are often illiterate, not licensed or familiar with city transport rules. Many orthopaedic hospitals and local bone-setting traditional houses are filled with ‘okada’ accident victims. ‘Okada’ menace, as seen all over the country, seems a disaster foretold. In the beginning, many analysts correctly predicted the chaos that is now the fate of many cities due to careless ‘okada’ riders who ride with a nauseating sense of entitlement and arrogance. The reason for their haughtiness is not far-fetched; most of the motorcycles are supplied them by some money-bags who exploit their lack of skills and education. It has been discovered that the money-bags encourage them to be reckless as they instantly replace their seized motorcycles.   Comrade Segun Sango (1958-2022)     Flight to nowhere     Drifting towards anarchy   The government must show its might and willingness to implement the law and forget whatever political capital it could gain from not doing so because the disadvantages far outweigh whatever advantage people bandy. There must be a deliberate and urgent action to improve the means of transportation by rail, water and land, and an investment in city buses that are functional and safe. Most ‘okada’ patrons do not do so out of choice, it is almost like a last option. No city worth its name can rely on motorcycles for transportation. Beyond the dangers the riders cause the society, they are an endangered species themselves. Most of them get respiratory infections because the brands of motorcycles they ride do not have the protective screen that come with the ones used frequently on the road. Again, the demographic of citizens that ride the ‘okada’ for a living are the productive youths that could do better if they learnt other skills or are educated. What the suppliers and state governments that are tolerating ‘okada’ are doing is empowering the youths of the Asian Tigers who produce the motorcycles. Even though there are some professional operators in the business, Nigeria does not have the requisite infrastructure to accommodate too many of the riders on roads that are too narrow with none delineated for such rides. The Lagos State government understands that this ‘okada’ issue will test its will to walk the talk instead of succumbing to the blackmail of the businessmen who gain from the operations. There must equally be education of the people to understand the real dangers of patronising the illiterate, unlicensed riders, whose only motive is profit. An informed citizenry will always make more informed choices.