Member, Board of trustees of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Anambra State, Chief Chris Uba has emerged candidate of the party for the Anambra South Senate contest. Former Aviation Minister, Princess Stella Oduah, also won the party’s ticket for Anambra North Senatorial zone election. Uba and Oduah who were declared winners in a primary election in Awka, the state capital, contested alongside four and two other aspirants, respectively. Senator Uche Ekwunife also win in Anambra central.. She retained her hold on the PDP ticket as well as Chief Chinedu Obidigwe of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) who won his second term ticket for Anambra East and East Federal Constituency. Declaring Uba and Oduah winners, chairman, PDP National Assembly Panel who acted as returning officer of the election for Anambra North and South Senatorial zones, Alfred Isename said Uba polled 338 votes to emerge winner for Anambra South Senatorial zone.   UPDATED: Supreme Court dismisses EFCC’s appeal against…     Bwacha wins Taraba APC Gov ticket     BREAKING: Peter Obi joins Labour Party   He said Ngozika Nwanegbu scored 7 votes, Val Ozuigbo 3 votes, Queen Peace 4 votes while Dr Obinna Uzor scored 0 vote. “I hereby declare Chief Chris Uba winber as PDP candidate to represent Anambra South Senatorial zones, having polled the highest number of votes 338”. He also announced Senator Oduah as winner to represent Anambra North senatorial zone with 278 votes. Isename declared, “I hereby declare Senator Stella Adaeze Oduah as winner, having scored 278 votes as the senator to represent Anambra North senatorial zone in the 2023 general election”. He announced other results to include Dr Tony Nwoye 1 vote and John Okechukwu 0 vote. Addressing reporters shortly after the results declaration, Uba described the election as peaceful, urging aggrieved aspirants to join hands with him to assist the party win the coming election. The duo of Ekwunife and Obidigwe were returned unopposed but were voted for by the delegates in line with the Electoral Act and the constitution of the party.