A University of  Lagos graduate of Philosophy, Bola Agunbiade, has said students prefer studying abroad as a result of  the insecurity in the country, among other challenges. “Nigerians travel abroad to study because of   insecurity  and the general apprehension in the country. Even if you are financially buoyant but do not feel safe, of what good is your money? People resign from high paying jobs just to relocate themselves and their families abroad,” she said. In an interview with CAMPUS LIFE, the graduate urged the government to stop paying lip service to education. Agunbiade, who said incessant industrial actions by the Academic Staff Union of Universities(ASUU), had done more harm than good, called on Federal Government to agree to the union’s demands.   Deborah Samuel: Students seek justice for slain colleague     Varsity plans big for Nigerian students     Student urges Lagos govt on cleaner environment   “The government might not be able to give them all that they (ASUU) are demanding, but it is important that they reach a compromise. It  should do all it  can to meet ASUU’s demands, maybe not all. It is the union’s right, and their members see all that obtains in the private universities, what their contemporaries are getting, and they feel something must be done for them too. At least, for the sake of Nigeria and the youth, this strike should end so that schools can resume,” she said. Agunbiade, however, charged government to provide  public universities with standard facilities to enhance learning. “Public universities should  have facilities fit for a school. For example, it is theory they do most of the time, so, it is until they graduated from the school that some of them became exposed to the practical and modern aspect of their courses. Many standard facilities are not available in public universities. “Many Nigerians want to go to school to acquire education, but the facilities are just not there. So, the facilities need to be made available in universities. The absence of that is what results to people who studied a course in the university and go to an entirely different profession for work. For some of them, they were not properly exposed to standard facilities,” she added.