Tragedy struck on Monday at Emeyal 2 community of Ogbia Local Government Area of Bayelsa State when hoodlums attacked and inflicted machete cuts on a commercial motorcyclist, Mr. Goodnews Okrinya. Okrinya, popularly known as J-Martin, did not survive the brutal attack as his neck was deeply cut with machetes resulting in his death immediately. The hoodlums were said to have dumped his lifeless body at Bakery area of Imiringi community and stolen his motorcycle. It was yet to be ascertained what led to the murder of Okrinya. The incident has attracted acerbic reactions from residents of the area, including Chairman of Ogbia Local Government Area, Dr. Ebinyo Marvin Turner. Turner in a statement on Monday, described the killing as senseless, barbaric, unacceptable and unbecoming of the area. He called on the security agencies to rise up to the ugly trend.   Sit-at-home grounds residents, commercial activities in Imo     Gunmen threaten more mayhem in Anambra     BREAKING: Peter Obi secures Labour Party presidential ticket   He promised that those behind the dastardly act would be unmasked and made to face the wrath of the law, declaring that Ogbia “will, and cannot be a den of criminals.” He expressed his condolences and that of the local government to the immediate family of the deceased. He further called for calm among locals, urging them to go about their normal daily business. He informed the people of the area that the council was on top of the matter to curtail any repeat of such acts in the area. The Commissioner of Police, Bayelsa State Command, Mr Ben Nebolisa Okolo, confirmed the incident and charged police operatives to fish out the culprits who murdered Okrinya. He said the deceased rider (Okrinya), aged 30, was murdered by unknown assailants, who stole his motorcycle and dumped his body in a cassava farm at Emeyal II community. Okolo said: “The body was discovered on 30 May, 2022 at about 0915 hours. “The scene was visited by operatives, photographs taken and the corpse was evacuated to the hospital for autopsy. Investigation is ongoing.”