Former Imo Governor Senator Rochas Okorocha has denied engaging five Senior Advocates of Nigeria(SANs) against the Attorney general of the Federation and claiming N1billion over invasion of his house in Abuja. Okorocha, who has been in EFCC custody since oepratives of the commission arrested him, said he had no cause to sue the AGF or his office claiming the alleged amount. In a statement on Tuesday by the Special Adviser (Media ) to Senator representing lmo West, Sam Onwuemeodo, Okorocha said the incident had nothing to do with AGF or his office. The statement reads: “We were concerned with the expected hearing of the bail application today, when our attention was drawn to the online stories of N1b suit and engagement of 5 SANS. “Okorocha has no reason to take either the Attorney General of the Federation or the office of the Attorney General of the Federation, to court and claiming N1b damages, over the invasion of his house, since the incident had nothing to do with AGF or his office.   BREAKING: Court grants Okorocha N500m bail     NAFDAC nabs businessman for alleged importation of fake drug     Lagos @ 55   “lf Okorocha comes out of detention and along the line , decides to take legal action to press for damages, over the invasion of his residence, he knows those who carried out the action. We do not think he would include the AGF or his office. “We know that some patriotic Human Rights Lawyers in the Country and some of them, highly respected SANs , have been of immense help in dealing with human rights violations in the Country , most of the times , on their own to help the society . “We are therefore having the feeling that , the renowned Senior Advocates mentioned in the online stories , might have been challenged by the invasion of Okorocha’s private residence by agents of the EFCC and might have also decided to take the bull by the horns. “We thank them. If Okorocha comes out of detention and decides to walk in that direction, fine. But one fact would be made clear and that is, the AGF and the office of AGF would not be parts of the action, because they had nothing to do with the invasion of Okorocha’s private residence. “We have done this, to keep the record straight,” the statement reads.