There was uproar, almost outrage when the All Progressives Congress (APC) announced that its presidential nomination and expression of interest forms would go for N100million. Many wondered whether the youth would ever have the chance to aspire to the highest office. While the presidency remains unattainable for them, there are other offices they can realistically pursue. The youths have the number and will no doubt have a say in the 2023 general election. Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Chairman Prof. Mahmood Yakubu recently stated that two key demographics would shape next year’s election: youths and women account for more than 75 per cent of the registered voters. Ahmed is a lawyer. In 2011, he ran for the House of Representative in Kano under the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC). On May 11, 2013, he delivered the famous speech on behalf of young people in the last CPC convention in Abuja. On the heels of the formation of the APC, Ismaeel founded the Youth Wing of the new party, known as the AllProgressives Youth Forum (APYF). Whilst serving as the youth representative in the Caretaker and Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) and as the National Youth Leader of the APC, he recorded significant milestones. Ahmed is aspires torepresent Kano Central Senatorial District in the Senate.   Popularly known as ST, Zakari holds the title of San Turakin Kazaure. He was appointed as the youngest cabinet-level appointee of the Buhari Administration as Special Adviser to the President on Infrastructure in 2019 at the age of 36. Viewed as one of the rising stars of the APC, Ahmad has overseen the successful implementation of multibillion-dollar intervention projects in the power sector. He has been credited with bringing organisation and coordination to all aspects of the sector. Before joining the Buhari administration, Ahmad rose to the rank of Executive Director, Gas Powered Installed Fleet and Services at General Electric of the United States of America. In his time as Special Adviser, Ahmad saw to the siting and completion of infrastructural projects worth billions of naira across the country, including in Jigawa State. This has endeared him not just to  Governor Mohammed Badaru Abubakar but also Jigawans, leading to calls for him to run for governor. Political commentators say he enjoys widespread support within the governor’s inner circle and is seen as one of the favorites to clinch the ticket. With the governor and other stakeholders looking at a younger generation to lead the state, Ahmad at 38 is well-placed to be saddled with such leadership responsibility. He is said to be highly thought of within the Presidency and the power sector and infrastructure finance spaces. He is a pioneer member of the InfraCorp Nigeria Steering Committee (later Board of Directors). He is also said to have a very close working and personal relationship with the Vice President as he has supported the National Economic Council, the National Council on Privatisation and the Niger Delta Power Holding Company, all chaired by the Vice President. He also served as a Member of the Legacy Projects Committee at the recent National Convention of the APC. Ahmad is running for governor of Jigawa. Abdullahi, also known as Dattijo, is an international development expert and public servant. He holds a Master’s Degree in Development Economics and Policy from the University of Manchester. He served as a policy adviser at the Executive Office of United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki Moon in New York. He resigned to serve as the Commissioner for Budget and Planning and subsequently as Chief of Staff to the Governor of Kaduna State. He aspires to represent Kaduna Central Senatorial District in the Senate.   Forty-year-old Brimah was the Special Assistant to the President on Internally Displaced Persons from 2015 to 2019 and Special Assistant to the President on Job Creation in the Office of the Vice President from 2019 to 2020. He returned to Kwara State to set up the State Social Investment Programmes (KWASSIP) as the General Manager under the Gover Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq. He resigned recently to pursue his political dreams. Brimah aspires to represent Ilorin East and South Federal Constituency.     Alleged Pension Fraud: Court adjourns ex-HoS Oronsaye’s case…     BREAKING: Buhari off to Malabo for AU Summit     Alleged fraud: Court okays extradition of Lagos businessman…   Fagade, who hails from Lagelu Local Government of Oyo State, is the Group Managing Director/ CEO of SODIUM GROUP, consisting of companies that operate in advertising, strategic media buying, hospitality, manufacturing, oil and gas. He served as a Brand Consultant to former Governor of Akwa-Ibom State, Obong Victor Attah in 2007, Strategic Consultant to the former Governor of Kwara State, Abdulfatah Ahmed (2011 to 2019) and Brand Consultant to former Governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode (2015 to 2019). Abisoye was a gubernatorial aspirant in the Alliance for Democracy in 2011. He intends to represent Oyo Central Senatorial District.   Thirty-nine-year-old Muhammad is the President Inner Glow Foundation. A businesswoman and media personality, she is running for House of Representatives to represent Lafia/Obi Federal Constituency.   Born September 16, 1986, Aridi is a founding member of Action Congress (AC) in her ward. She served as Ward Vice Chairman, Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) (Calabar South Ward 1) and APC Ward Vice Chairman. She was a counsellorship candidate in 2017 and is eyeing the House of Assembly to represent Calabar South State Constituency 1.   Forty-one year old Afolabi-Oshatimehin served as Commissioner for Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Commissioner for Communications, Commissioner Ministry for Youth Development and Commissioner for Solid Minerals Development in Kwara State. She seeks to represent Ifelodun, Offa, Oyun Federal Constituency.   Hadejia, who hails from Jigawa State, is an architect. He was the Co-Chair of the Progress Report and Rapporteur Committee of the 2022 APC National Convention and is eyeing the House of Representatives.   Born June 29, 1986, Sarari is a graduate of Bayero University Kano. A member of APYF and the Bubari Support Organisation in 2019, he participated in the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) 2019 and 2021. He is an assistant in the Office of the Vice President. He is running for House of Representative to represent the Kumbotso Federal Constituency.   Born on April 1, 1990 in Michika Local Government, Kwache is a grassroots moraliser and stakeholder of the Progressives Youth of the APC. She was the coordinator of the APC-Progressive Young Women, Adamawa State Chapter and was former Vice Chairman, National Youth Council, Adamawa Chapter. He aspires to represent Madagali and Michika Federal Constituency in Adamawa State.   Kaitafi, who hails from Gashua, Bade Local Government in Yobe State, was born in 1986 in Maiduguri. A graduate of the University Maiduguri, he studied Political Science. After 12 years at the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), was appointed Special Adviser to the Senate President from 2019 to 2022. He wishes to represent Bade/Jakusko in the House of Representatives.   Forty-year-old Oladapo holds a BSc in System Engineering from University of Lagos. The Commissioner representing Ondo Central in Ondo State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (OSOPADEC) wishes to represent Ondo West Constituency II in the House of Assembly.   A princess from the Akenneyin royal dynasty in Mahin land in Ilaje Local Government Area of Ondo State, Fayemi, an entrepreneur, holds a B.Sc in Business Administration and an MBA from the Elizade University. Her dream is to represent Ilaje Constituency II in the Ondo State House of Assembly.   A physicist with a masters degree in Renewable Energy Engineering, Otubanjo worked as a civil servant with the Lagos State Government during which she managed the Lagos Solar Project portfolio, including solar systems in rural government schools and primary healthcare centres. She wishes to represent Ogun Waterside, Ijebu East and Ijebu North Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives.   Born on March 15, 1981, Olateju is a graduate of the Kwara State Polytechnic and Lead City University Ibadan. He is member of the APYF and NYCN and has contributed significantly in the mobilisation of youths from Kwara State and in the Southwest during the Progressive Youth Festival in Ibadan. He aspires to represent Ifelodun, Offa and Oyun in the Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives.