President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered all Ministers with political ambitions to resign their appointments on or before Monday, May 16, 2022. Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, announced this to State House Correspondents after the weekly virtual Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. According to Mohammed, the President gave the directive at the FEC meeting. He said: “The mandate I have from the President is to announce that all members of the Federal Executive Council contesting for elective office must resign their ministerial cabinet appointments on or before Monday the 16th of May, 2022.”   BREAKING: Angry Buhari orders Akpabio, Amaechi, Sylva,…     Call on Buhari to extend tenure threat to democracy,…     Disquiet over Niger APC chair’s position on Gov. Sani…   Asked if the directive would be extended to other Federal appointees outside the cabinet like the Central Bank Governor, Godwin Emefiele, who may join the presidential race, Mohammed said only Ministers are asked to resign as of now. “As of this moment, the mandate I have is for members of the Federal Executive Council. Subsequently it might affect other political appointees but that will be made known. If there is going to be any amendment or any inclusion, you will be informed in due course,” he stressed. Those affected are Ministers of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi; Niger Delta, Godswill Akpabio; Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige; Science, Technology and Innovation, Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajiuba; State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, all of whom have joined the presidential race on the platform of the All Progressive Congress (APC). Others are the Justice and Attorney-General, Abubakar Malami; Minister of State for Mines and Steel, Uche Ogar, who is running for governorship position in Cross Rivers State; Minister of Women Affairs, Paulline Tallen, who declared her ambition to contest for a senatorial seat in Plateau State.