The rank of the opposition People Democratic Party (PDP) has been depleted following the defections of top leaders of the party to the ruling All Progressives Congress ahead of the June 18 governorship poll. The defectors led by former member of Ekiti Assembly, Olusanya Aladeyelu and close ally of ex-Governor Ayodele Fayose were received on Sunday in Eyio-Ekiti in Irepodun/Ifelodun Council Area by the APC leadership. Other defectors were; Chief Johnson Aladeyelu, Kemi Fatoki, Foluso Samuel, Roseline Opeyemi, Lara Afolabi, Sunday Aladeyelu, Dayo Aladeyelu,Toba Aderemi, Folake Oyelegan and amongst others. A statement by Deputy Director of Media, Biodun Oyebanji Campaign Organisation, Mr. Wole Olujobi, said that the defectors switched loyalty because of giant strides and developmental policies of the APC-led government in the state. Speaking on behalf of the defectors, Aladeyelun explained that he joined APC with his supporters having x-rayed all the candidates in the race and finding APC most qualified to take Ekiti to higher pedestal. Aladeyelu said he had tasted both sides of party politics in Ekiti sttate, stressing that the ruling APC and its candidate, Mr Biodun Oyebnji represented the greatest hope for actualisation of Ekiti founding founders’ dream. The former lawmaker said the PDP in the State is dead and only waiting for its final burial, adding that those who decamped with him are key stakeholders who hold the ace in their former party. He promised that they would all deploy their viral structures, resources, contacts and enormous goodwill and to ensuring all-round victory for Oyebanji in the June 18 governorship election.   Confusion, uncertainty over APC, PDP primaries in Imo     One of my ‘sons’ ll emerge next Enugu Governor…     BREAKING: S’East APC presidential aspirants in…   While receiving the defectors, the APC State Chairman, Barrister Paul Omotoso commended them for taking the bold step to join the APC, which he described as the hope of the masses. He called on members and supporters to brace up for the June 18 poll, describing the election as a must win to sustain the legacies of Governor Kayode Fayemi-led government for utmost betterment of the citizenry. But, the opposition PDP dismissed the defection claims, saying that those who joined to the APC were never members of the umbrella party. The party’s State Publicity Secretary, Mr. Raphael Adeyanju said that apart from Aladeyelu who had long exited the PDP before now, others were unknown to the party. He challenged the ruling APC to produce the defectors’ PDP membership cards to show that they were bonafide members of the party in the party. Adeyanju said that he was not surprised by childishly peddled falsehood, adding that APC was always struggling to draw attention to itself in order to validate its alleged monumental failure in the state. “Ordinarily, we wouldn’t not dignify such inanity with a response, but to ensure that nobody is held in doubt about the falsehood inherent in the defection. Our members in Eyio-Ekiti have no reason to contemplate such action. “We wish to assure our teeming member, supporters and Ekiti people that there is no iota of truth in the claims. Ekiti PDP is intact and there is no crack anywhere as our people are poised to take over power come June 18”, he added.