The Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal has observed that Nigeria is inching towards a failed state, saying that the country has never had it so bad. Echoing Tambuwal, a renowned investment banker, Alhaji Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, said the collapsed economy is the root of the nation’s security challenges. Tambuwal and Hayatu-Deen, who are presidential aspirants of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) made the observations at separate fora in Abuja. The Sokoto governor who spoke yesterday during a consultative meeting with the leadership of the PDP, said the country was facing greater danger than never before. Tambuwal said: “We are facing greater danger that we have never faced before. Our country has been divided as never before. Our economy is in shambles with insecurity ravaging the country the way it has never been before. The general summation of the situation of the country is that we are inching towards a failed state. I am not saying that Nigeria is already a failed state, but we are inching towards that.   Mystery as police detain businessman, woman he met on social…     Reactions over UK’s new visa policy ‘excluding’ Nigerian…     Petrol tanker falls, crushes girl in Rivers   “Therefore, it is our responsibility to collectively work together towards rescuing our country, retrieving the country from the APC (All Progressives Congress) before the deed is done.” According to him, the PDP is poised and better positioned to provide the required platform to turn things around. He observed that majority of Nigerians who are dissatisfied with what is happening in the country have been relocating overseas. He recalled that the situation was not this bad at the time the PDP handed over power to the APC in 2015. “But where are we today? We are all very aware of our situation. What is happening to our unity? So many Nigerians, when they wake up, they ask themselves, what am I doing here?  Those who can find their way have already left and several are processing their way out of this country because of their belief that Nigeria is not working for all of us. “But we cannot all be that disappointed, disenchanted to begin to process papers to leave this country. Some of us must remain behind and slug it out through the democratic process to retrieve our country, reposition our country and work towards rebuilding our country”. On his part, Hayatu-Deen attributed the general state of insecurity to the nation’s collapsed economy. According to him, the troubled economy was the root of all other challenges confronting the nation, especially the rising insecurity. He promised to fix the economy and security if elected President, saying that was his motivation for joining the presidential race.