Dr Azeez Adeduntan, an All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant in Oyo State, says he is ready for probe over alleged diversion of N50 billion state Health Endowment Fund during the last administration. Adeduntan, a former Commissioner for Health, under the late Gov. Abiola Ajimobi, made the declaration in Ibadan, while declaring his intention to contest the governorship seat on the platform of APC. He was reacting to a recent allegation by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that the N50 billion was diverted from the state’s coffer by the Ajimobi-led administration. The governorship aspirant, however, cautioned the PDP from making frivolous allegations. According to him, I am ready for probe by the Gov. Seyi Makinde-led administration over alleged diversion of the fund. Adeduntan said the N50 billion was just the target of the administration, adding that they realised below N100 million from the fund. “Less than N100 million was realised in spite of the pledges made during the endowment fund. The money realised was expended on some dilapidated hospitals.   Odili made enemies for insisting on Ikwerre successor…     Deborah: NBA postpones Sokoto Conference indefinitely     2022 UTME: JAMB rules out errors in scoring system   “The late Gov. Ajimobi ensured that the money realised was managed by a Board of Trustees led by renowned late Prof. Oladipupo Akinkugbe; Prof. Daud Noibi; Bishop Ayo Ladigbolu and some other prominent personalities. “These people were carefully selected and untainted in their various careers. It will be a wild goose chase, barren and futile exercise,” he said. The aspirant said he remained the best aspirant in the party to wrestle power from Makinde in 2023. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the governorship aspirant unveiled his seven points agenda to transform the state, if elected. Among the agenda were security of lives and property, health, education, youths employment, infrastructure, farming, as well as social welfare for the aged and unemployed. Adeduntan, a Cardiovascular Surgeon of International repute, appealed to the party delegates in the state to give him the mandate to fly the party’s flag in the 2023 governorship election. He promised to bring his private and public sector experiences to bear. NAN reports that the APC governorship primaries would hold on May 20.(NAN)