CITING high cost of aviation fuel now selling for N700 per litre, domestic carriers said they will shut down flights effective Monday May 9, 2022. Speaking through their umbrella body, Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), the association said they could no longer operator under difficult cost regime. In a statement issued on Friday, the carriers said : “It is with a great sense of responsibility and patriotism that the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) have carried on deploying and subsidizing their services to our highly esteemed Nigerian flying public in the last four Months, despite the steady and astronomical hike in the price of JetA1 and other operating costs.   AfDB secures $15.6b investment for construction of…     CBT centre operators hail JAMB as 1.7m sit for 2022 UTME/DE     Over 5,000 nurses have left Nigeria in three years –…   “Aviation aviation fuel price (JetA1) has risen from N190 per litre to N700 currently. No airline in the world can absorb this kind of sudden shock from such an astronomical rise over a short period. While aviation fuel worldwide is said to cost about 40 per cent  of an airline’s operating cost globally, the present hike has shut up Nigeria’s operating cost to about 95 percent . “In the face of this, airlines have engaged the Federal Government, the National Assembly, NNPC and Oil Marketers with the view to bringing the cost of JetA1 down which has currently made the unit cost per seat for a one hour flight in Nigeria today to an average of N120,000. The latter cannot be fully passed to passengers who are already experiencing a lot of difficulties.” “While AON appreciates the efforts of the current government under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure air transport in Nigeria grows, unfortunately, the cost of aviation fuel has continued to rise unabated thereby creating huge pressure on the sustainability of operations and financial viability of the airlines. This is unsustainable and the airlines can no longer absorb the pressure. “To this end therefore, the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) hereby wishes to regrettably inform the general public that member airlines will discontinue operations nationwide with effect from Monday May 9, 2022 until further notice. “AON uses this medium to humbly state that we regret any inconveniences this very difficult decision might cause and appeal to travelers to kindly reconsider their travel itinerary and make alternative arrangements.”