Love is a beautiful thing but for some celebrity couples, the feeling did not progress beyond the engagement stage. Actor Alexx Ekubo and his then fiancee Fancy Acholonu were set to get married in December 2021 after the actor announced in May via Instagram that he proposed to Fancy and got a ‘yes’. Few months down the line, Fancy took to her Instagram page to confirm that the engagement between the couple had been called off and deleted pictures of them together. According to her, she decided to break up with Alexx because it is important they both find happiness and live in their truth. American actress and singer, Taraji P. Henson got engaged to Kelvin Hayden two years after they started dating. They broke up in 2020 and Henson revealed to Power 105.1 The Breakfast Club “I was like let’s do the therapy thing. But if you are both not on the same page with that, then you feel like you are taking it on yourself.”   Social media trends: Celebration galore for Ini Edo, Oga…     Lagos agog as reggae artistes excite fans to honour late Bob…     Full list of AMVCA 8 winners   Rob Kardashian’s relationship with Blac Chyna wasn’t without its share of drama, given her fraught relationship with the rest of his family. Nonetheless, the couple got engaged after just ten weeks of dating, and welcomed their daughter Dream together in November 2017. But their on-off relationship wasn’t to be; the pair broke off their engagement by February 2018. On Valentine’s day in 2015, Taylor Kinney engaged Lady Gaga with a heart shaped ring. A year later they announced that they were taking a break but they never got back together. Nick Young and music star, Iggy Azalea went on a date after he tweeted about his crush on her in 2014. The following year, Young proposed on his 30th birthday. Unfortunately, a year after that a video of Young allegedly cheating on Azalea surfaced online. They eventually broke up months later.  Pete Davidson and Ariana Grande started dating in May 2018 and by June they got engaged. However by October they decided to go their separate ways.