He was a great man. He was a colourful politician. He was famous. But, Dr. Francis Arthur Nzeribe was controversy personified. As the curtain drew on his life few days ago, the nation may not feel any sense of loss because of his role in the ill-fated Third Republic. But, his family and townspeople will greatly miss him. He was a Maverick, a warrior, a cunning political actor, a military apologist, and at the twilight of life, an isolate and a political rejectee. He shown brilliantly as a business mogul, an investor who cannot be ignored, an arms dealer, a wealthy ‘wizard.’ He operated in two countries-Ghana and Nigeria-as a shrewd businessman and an uncommon strategist. However, he had to contend with a fading influence towards the end. His acts were not worthy of emulation because he wrecked havoc on the system that permitted the mess. He was already a household name in the Second Republic when he took the politics of Orlu District by storm. He projected himself as a fan of the Great Zik of Africa, Dr. Nnamidi Azikiwe, leader and presidential candidate of the defunct Peoples Democratic Party(NPP). He said he was prepared to make his private jet available to the Owelle of Onitsha. But, he later told reporters that he preferred his rival, the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo, for president. His campaigns were electrifying. In fame, he was only second to Dr. Ozumba Mbadiwe, man of timber and calibre, caterpillar and bulldozer, who hailed from the same district. He was colourful on the podium. “Aham bu Francis Arthur Nzeribe. Unu sim puta, aputalam,” his posters read, translated as  “you asked me to come out and join politics. I have done that.” His radio jingle in those days  was: “Vote for progress, vote for prosperity, for Change 83, Arthur Nzeribe is the people’s choice.” Nzeribe won his senatorial election, thereby becoming a force to reckon with in old Imo State. He was later disappointed when the coup plotters of 1983 sacked the civilian regime. He went back to his business. In the Third Republic, he was a different person. Nzeribe devoted his time and energy to the anti-democratic project of scuttling the transition programme, which military President Ibrahim Babangida had designed to fail. But, Nigerians, tired of military rule, decided to end the inglorious dictatorship by voting for the restoration of civil rule. As Nigerians were warming up for the presidential poll, the Association for Better Nigeria (ABN), led by him, was working assiduously to truncate the democratic process. It was evident that Chief Moshood Abiola of the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP) will defeat Alhaji Bashir Othman of the proscribed National Republican Convention (NRC). Armed with clear instructions by the military to derail the transition programme, he and his co-traveller, Abimbola Davies, swung into action, collating frictious signatures. The June 12 presidential poll, Nzeribe said, must not hold. He headed for the court. At midnight, a compromised judge gave a dubious verdict. The rest is history. Nzeribe beat his chest as a stakeholder who should be wooed by Abiola, in the course of post-annulment consultations and mobilisation for de-annulment. He boasted that the Aare Ona Kankanfo must come to his kitchen to appease him. As Abiola stormed his palatial residence at Oguta, he ran to his kitchen where the symbol of June 12 met him. They shook hands. It was a warm embrace between the deprived winner of the most historic and credible poll and one of his tormentors. The meeting never achieved anything. Nzeribe was later to bounce back again as one of the pioneer senators of the Fourth Republic. He represented Orlu District for eight years. An experienced legislator, he was never a good example to non-ranking colleagues. Nzeribe was associated with many controversial moves on the floor of the hallowed chamber.   2023: The odd against Osinbajo     Abuja to host dialogue on constitution reform     Appeal Court sets aside judgment voiding Section 84(12)   He tried to mobilise senators to impeach former President Olusegun Obasanjo. The move elicited wild condemnation. His colleagues threatened him with impeachment. Therefore, he cleverly beat a retreat by withdrawing his petition. When reporters accosted him, he said the withdrawal was tactical. He said he had postponed the battle. But, gradually, his structure and influence at the home front were ebbing away. Former Governor Achike Udenwa found his style boring, although constituents continued to worship Nzeribe as a god. He underrated the governor, who eventually drew the curtains on his senatorial career. A new candidate was raised to take his pre-eminent place. Since then, Nzeribe had been off the radar. At 83, he was a fulfilled man. He was said to have taken ill few years back. In 2017, a photograph that portrayed him as ageing and ill appeared in the social media. It could not be authenticated. Only few politicians of his time were that privileged. Nzeribe was swimming in opulence. He was highly connected. It was said that he was a descendant of an aristocrat, his grandfather, Akpati Nzeribe, being the Ogbuagu, Oshiji, Damanze Oyimba of Oguta. His father, Oyimba Nzeribe, was a lawyer. His second wife is the sister of Hajia Asabe Yar’Adua, wife of the late General Shehu Musa Yar’ Adua. Although Nzeribe lost his mother as a primary school pupil, he overcame the constraints. Some clerics took interest in him as a very sharp kid. He attended Bishop Shanahan College, Orlu, and Holy Ghost College, Owerri. Later, he pursued a training in Marine Engineering, after working at the Nigeria Port Authority(NPA) as an engineering cadet in Lagos. He was at Portsmouth College of Technology. He also attended Chesterfield College of Technology in England. In 1960, he delved into insurance. His clients were black immigrants in Britain. But, when he returned to Nigeria in 1961, he worked with Shell. For few months, he was also said to be an Air Force cadet. Later, he was engaged by Gulf Oil at the firm’s Escravos facility. Nzeribe also made fortunes from public relations, through his firm, Jeafan. His partners were   a Ghanaian and two Britons. He got contracts from some African diplomatic missions in London, particularly the Ghana High Commission. A turning point was his meeting with former President Kwame Nkurumah of Ghana, who linked him with other African leaders. When Nkrumah was overthrown, he struck a deal with his successor, Gen. Joseph Ankarah, head of the Liberation Council. But, those who topped Ankarah loathed his influence In 1969, Nzeribe established Fanz Organization in London. The company had interest in construction, arms, oil brokerage, publishing, and property investment. Those engagements took him to the Middle East and Gulf states. By 1979, Fanz could boast of  annual trading turnover of £70 million. In Nigeria, Nzeribe established Sentinel Assurance. He built in his native Oguta the “Heaven of Peace,” a big estate. Nzeribe was said to have spent N12m to win his  senatorial election in 1983. He was a big donor at public functions. In May of one year, he said he had received invitations for events that will take place in December, six months to the events, and the organisers expected him to donate big money. He was elected Senator again in 1999 and re-elected in 2003. In November 2002, former Senate President Anyim Pius Anyim suspended Nzeribe indefinitely due to an allegation of a N22 million fraud. Nzeribe was said to be planning an impeachment motion against Anyim. In April 2006, the Orlu People’s Consultative Assembly was instigated by Udenwa to stage what a “One million March” to recall Nzeribe from the Senate. Later, in December 2006, at the PDP primary for the 2007 poll,  he was defeated by Osita Izunaso. Nzeribe remained a hero of his Oguta people. He was at home with the locals. They can never forget his philanthropist activities. But, pro-democracy will not forget the nightmare of annulment. He was one of the the architects. History will remember him as a great politician, who derailed, a bad influence on the polity and a political actor who failed to use the opportunity he had to turn a new leaf.