With the opening of Duchess International Hospital, a world-class facility in Lagos, Nigerians no longer have reasons to embark on foreign medical trips. Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, stated this after a tour of the state-of-the-art establishment in Lagos on Tuesday. An ecstatic Mohammed enthused that Duchess International Hospital will  reduce the drain caused by medical tourism on the country’s foreign reserves, adding that the Federal Government’s financial interventions in the sector were meant to boost the world-class health care facilities like the Duchess International Hospital. This is further borne out of the belief that Nigerians, just like their counterparts in more developed climes, also deserve to have access to the best medical services at affordable prices, he stated. Addressing reporters after the tour, the minister promised that he and other top government officials would register in the hospital, stressing that Nigerian doctors abroad have reasons to come back home to render services in the new hospitals. With more world-class health care facilities like Duchess Hospital opening for business in the country, Mohammed said he is optimistic that Nigeria will soon become a destination for medical tourists; instead of the usual ruinous practice of having  poor and rich Nigerians jetting abroad to expend over N500 billion yearly on medical tourism. He described Duchess International Hospital which delivers the highest standard of health care, using the most advanced technology to provide world-class treatments to Nigerians through its team of best medical expertise sourced from Nigeria and abroad. The minster said he was happy that patients have started coming in from other countries to access health care in Duchess Hospital, a facility he described as a one-stop shop for comprehensive medical services. “The Federal Government, through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Bank of Industry (BoI), provided  support for Duchess International Hospital. “Recall that in the wake of COVID-19, the CBN set up the N100 billion health care sector intervention fund, expanded to N200 billion, to provide credit support for the sector through long-term, low-cost financing,” he said.   mPharma reaffirms commitment to affordable healthcare     BluePeak invests $15m in Africure for affordable medicines     Mortein pushes prevention as cost-effective way against…   According to Mohammed, what the Duchess International Hospital means as Nigeria’s success story is that the country can start conserving its foreign reserves, earning foreign exchange, creating much-need jobs, reversing the scourge of brain drain and, ultimately, becoming a destination for medical tourists who are often in search of  affordable and standard healthcare services. “We, as a country, will also conserve our foreign reserves while earning foreign exchange: we will begin to reverse the brain drain in the health sector; create jobs and provide affordable and standard healthcare for our people. It’s a new dawn for the health sector and we are proud of what Duchess and other health care facilities are doing in bringing about this new dawn.” He further recalled that records show that Nigerians spend between USD1.2 and USD1.6 billion on medical tourism. “That’s a huge drain on our foreign reserves. Also, to retain doctors, our healthcare facilities must be equipped to the world standard level and doctors and other healthcare workers must be adequately remunerated. Of course, facilities like Duchess International are veritable tools for job creation, in addition to attracting medical tourists from across the world. “I am sure the questions on the lips of many here would be how affordable this hospital is, especially for ordinary Nigerians. Fittingly, the management of Duchess Hospital has answered that question by launching the ‘World-class Affordable Healthcare Programme.’ “With what we have seen here today and the programme that has just been launched, Nigerians can now get access to affordable and world-class treatment in whatever is ailing them in many areas, including emergency medicine, women’s health, paediatric care, cardiovascular medicine, kidney dialysis, dental treatment, eye care, etc.” Launching the hospital’s World-class Affordable Health care Programme, the Chief Executive Officer, Duchess International Hospital, Dr Adetokunbo Shitta-Bey, announced that with only N5,000, a patient could register in the hospital; while it takes the same amount to see any consultant in the hospital. He said the mission of the hospital is to be the go-to facility where every Nigerian is assured of access to world-class healthcare service – a mission that will ultimately reverse medical tourism through delivery of highest standards of care, using the most advanced technology to give patients the fastest, most convenient access to the best medical expertise comparable to what is available anywhere in the world. The CEO added that the hospital is positioned to solve the problems of access to affordable health care for communities by providing primary, secondary and tertiary health care across a range of specialist and sub-specialty areas. “The Duchess International Hospital provides an impressive range of advanced and highly sophisticated facilities across a variety of specialties. The hospital, for example, offers the most advanced cardiac catheterisation (Cath lab) suite in Africa combined with the requisite international expertise and experience to provide minimally invasive (interventional) cardiological treatments and ‘open heart’ surgery in accordance with global best practice,” he said. Inaugurated last October by the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Duchess International Hospital, a new facility under the Reddington Hospitals group, is an indigenous brand, rooted in the needs and aspirations of the domestic populace and committed to providing access to high quality affordable health care for Nigeria and sub-Saharan Africa.