Asharami Synergy Limited, a Sahara Group Downstream Company, is investing in technology and innovative solutions to enhance its capacity to fuel seamless economic growth through its operations in the aviation fuel market. The firm, Nigeria’s first indigenous energy company to operate as an independent aviation fuel marketer, controls about 25 per cent market share in the industry, operating as the preferred aviation fuel market for local and international airlines. Head, Sahara Downstream Business, Foluso Sobanjo, during a tour of the company’s Jet A1 plant in Lagos at the weekend, said investments in infrastructure, human capital transformation, quality, health,  safety, and environmental sustainability continues to drive service excellence in the organisation. “We have been at the forefront of oil and gas enterprise in the West African region for over 20 years. Asharami Synergy has a formidable presence in the sector, providing best-in-class fuel procurement and distribution solutions by utilising innovative technology and improved efficiency across the downstream supply chain. Our quest for increased market share is borne out of our commitment to transforming the sector,” Sobanjo said.   Crypto: Firm seeks collaboration with SEC     We’ve made major progress, says UNECA     ‘Tax exemptions, concessions causing revenue leakages’   Asharami Synergy, which operates in four countries on the continent, has a combined storage capacity of 81 million litres of aviation fuel otherwise known as ATK. The company has over 30 million litres storage capacity for ATK across various locations in Nigeria with fleet of ultra-modern bowsers, fuelling the growth and development  of the national and sub-regional economy by providing seamless access to safe and reliable ATK. Sobanjo said “safety first and always” is the mantra that drives operations in Asharami Synergy Depot-a commitment that has earned the company multiple International Standards Organisation (ISO) certifications. He said being a strategic partner of the International Air Transport Association (IATA) gives Asharami Synergy a global credibility that is driven by a statutory self-responsibility that propels its business operations in compliance with the highest global standards. “Asharami Synergy is an ISO certified to ISO 9001:2015 (Quality), ISO 14001:2015 (Environmental) and ISO 45001:2018 (Occupational Health and Safety). Our mantra is to Safety First, Safety Always, ensuring that the health and safety of our employees and other stakeholders remains priority in all business operations,” he added. Asharami Synergy is a vertically integrated and downstream company in the West African region with established and formidable presence in the sector-providing best-in-class fuel procurement and distribution solutions by utilising innovative technology and improved ef?ciency across the downstream supply chain. Asharami Synergy emerged from a consolidation of Sahara Group Downstream Companies with interest in procurement, storage, and distribution of white products across Nigeria.