The migration of people from city-centres to the suburbs has continued for years. As rentals increase beyond what they can pay, they continue to move until they anchor in a comfortable place on the outskirts of the city. While people live in such towns as Nyanya, Dei Dei, Mararaba, and Gwagwalada, among others, in Abuja, in Lagos State, they live in neighbouring Ogun and Oyo states but work in the former federal capital. Chairman, Nigeria Institution of Estate Surveyors & Valuers, (NIESV), Lagos State chapter, Olabisi Demola-Alade, confirmed the development. She said in the last 15 years, a trend developed in Lagos and, of course, in other cities such as Port Harcourt and Abuja in which people began to welcome home ownership possibilities. This pushed housing for city workers to the suburbs. “Along with this development were low-cost estate developers, who literally go to the suburbs to negotiate land with the locals, popularly known as omonile (land owners) and make estates open to low income-earners and middle class Nigerians in these cities with instalmental payments. This has made it much easier for average people to own their homes in the suburbs,” she added. She said one could actually get cheap land in the suburbs.  According to her, once the appetite for home ownership hit the middle class market, there was a drift towards the suburbs where land could be easily accessed.   Intercontinental Park assures Catholic Church of service…     IFC, CITIC launch $300m fund for affordable housing in…     Surveyors canvass intellectual property hub development   “However, in all these, what appeared to be the background fact is the unusual demand for home ownership. In the last two decades, we began to see people wanting to own their homes, rather than keep paying rents; this is due to the killing increase in rents by the city landlords.They began to make more permanent investments in the cities where they live rather than pushing their incomes back home to invest in their villages or home states. Much of this investment landed on housing. With this kind of development, lands are readily available in the suburbs and so the suburbs readily grab the market. “As I talk, neighbouring Ogun towns on the Mowe-Ofada-Ibafo axis and Sango Otta areas are full with more villages being in the provision of social infrastructure such as roads, electricity, schools, hospitals and markets. Many of these places are already full blown cities, but they lack the government’s attention with their roads and streets not tarred and only private schools are available for children,” she added. Former National Secretary of the Nigeria Institution of Estate Surveyors & Valuers, (NIESV),Offiong Samuel Ukpong  explained that the migration seemed to be high from city-centres, which are congested with pollution and where land values are higher and affordability is a big issue for middle income earners. He said: “The suburbs are greener and more livable. City centres have concentration of businesses and residential properties are giving way for commercial developments thus are gradual displacement of land uses. Spaces afforded in city centers could be smaller than the suburbs where land sizes could be more and cheaper. Immediate past NIESV Lagos chairman Dotun Bamigbola said cheaper land and rent, direct transportation route to the city-centre and the satisfaction of an owner living in their property. Others are lower cost of living, improved communal neigbourhood and improved infrastructure development or other reasons, according to Bamigbola. For the Vice Chairman of NIESV, Lagos chapter Gbenga Ismail those migrating could not afford to live in the city-centre as a result of high costs. A developer, Olumide Ogunleye, said: “To these people there is no half-landlord; it really does not matter to them if there is no infrastructure such as good roads, water, electricity, education and health facilities. The driving force is to be called a landlord. It is also expected that the rentals in future will serve as a retirement benefit to many.”