The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) and the Lagos State government have pledged to deepen the tech start-up ecosystem in the country  to harness the immense potential of the industry for growth. The Director-General, NITDA, Mallam Inuwa Abdullahi, who spoke at Eko Innovation Centre, Ikoyi, during  pitching for tech start-ups that will represent the country at Gulf Information Technology Exhibition (GITEX)  slated for Dubai, the United Arab Emirates (UAE). He pledged not to relent in giving support to young Nigerians with start-ups in various forms to catalyse the entire ecosystem to build a digital economy. Represented by Head of Corporate Planning & Strategy at NITDA, Dr. Aristotle Onumo, the DG said:  “As regards this particular programme, the North Star is trying to take advantage of the programme to expose our start-ups, while NITDA is partnering GITEX. “What is happening will happen in Dubai, but the Dubai World Trade Centre and the Dubai Government are represented here. “They have come to Nigeria to harness the innovative skills in Nigeria to start early marketing of the two to be selected and connect them with various investors across the globe so that even before they get to GITEX proper, they would have had a kind of visibility.”   SIM-NIN link blues     Challenges before PSB licencees     Investment in subsea cables to exceed $10b   Similarly, the Special Adviser to Lagos State Governor on Innovation and Technology, Tunbosun Alake, said the initiative is to give opportunities to our ecosystem start-ups with better access to local and foreign markets. “At the same time, Dubai and GITEX are keen to be part of the start-up ecosystem in Lagos. “This initiative is for us to explore opportunities together, so the finalists will be participating in the North Star program in Dubai in October, and we hope they are able to get more international investors and access to the UAE market. The number one objective is to grow our ecosystem. In terms of accelerating the state as a tech hub, it gives us more recognition globally because of our partners in the UAE. “If the UAE is here, it is a signal to other partners across the globe. It also helps our start-ups here to get access to their market internationally and with that, they can expand their revenue base. At the end of the pitching, two Nigerian start-ups, Paddy Cover and Pricepally.com won the Dubai World Trade Centre’s $200,000 Lagos talent show, while TruQ emerged the EIC and Lagos State winner. The insuretech firm, Paddy Cover, co-founded by Mayowa Owolabi and Tobi Obasa, and the food sourcing and distribution tech firm, Pricepally, owned by Luther Lawoyin, as well as TruQ, owned by Williams Fatayo, beat 24 other contestants who pitched their ideas before six judges.