The Emir of Damaturu, Hashimi II El-Kanemi, says the emirate will support and join Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo in prayers so that God will make him the president of Nigeria in 2023. He made this pledge while receiving the vice-president, who was on a courtesy visit to his palace yesterday in Damaturu, the Yobe State capital. Osinbajo was in Yobe in continuation of his consultations with All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholders ahead of the party’s presidential primaries. The traditional ruler said the vice- president’s visit to the palace was an indication of the respect he had for the traditional institution. “What we are expecting is continuity; to build upon what is established and this is where we are heading to.   Amaechi: Katsina APC delegates should reciprocate my gesture     How I will tackle electricity problem, by Ayade     Nigeria is a complex country, says Obasanjo   “To appreciate President Muhammadu Buhari; when you bring the issue of security, our governor will bear witness over what went on in this state; what transpired in this state; but when Buhari came on board, things became better; things changed for the better. “We have witnessed relative peace in this government; President Buhari has done a lot for this great country; he is doing a lot despite all challenges; we sincerely need to appreciate your leadership. “We will, by the Grace of God, join you; support you in prayers and support you in all aspects to see that you excel; and at the end of the day, we pray that God will make you the president of this great country, Nigeria.” El-kanemi hailed Governor Mai Mala Buni, whom he said had creditably acquitted himself in governing the state while maintaining a cordial relationship with the traditional institution. Earlier in his remark, Vice-President Osinbajo, who was accompanied by Governor Buni, thanked the traditional ruler for the warm welcome accorded him. The vice-president asked El-Kanemi to thank the governor, who had consistently been a good friend, supporter and ally; and for what he had done for the party.