Gunmen suspected to be kidnappers have shot dead a former chapter chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in OrukAnam local government area of Akwa Ibom State,  Sir Sylvester. J Ntefre. It was learnt the PDP chieftain was killed at about 8am on Sunday at his residence in Ekparakwa community after abducting and taking him to a nearby bush. The hoodlums came in a black Jeep vehicle  and shot sporadically into the air to scare away neighbours. The gunshots attracted youths who raised the alarm and started chasing the hoodlums, eyewitnesses said. One of the eyewitnesses said: “By the time the youths started to chase the kidnappers , they had already abducted the party chief into the nearby bush and shot him severally while some members of the gang who were waiting  in a standby black Jeep abandoned it ,  ran out of the car and escaped through the bush. “The community people came out and rolled the Jeep away from that place . I don’t know where they took it but I am sure they ran away leaving the car behind.”   Lagos to clamp down on street traders     BREAKING: I’ll resign on Monday – Amaechi     IRT arrests two herders over alleged kidnapping, rescue…   It was gathered that the youths quickly searched the bush and discovered the corpse of the party chieftain lying in the pool of his blood . However, some residents of Ekparakwa community alleged that the victim was politically assassinated because of he refused to support the aspiration of one of the House of Assembly aspirants. “This incident has some political contents . The deceased was known for being upright in his stand against some contenders in House of Assembly race in the area. “This one has surprised everybody. Though kidnapping has been rampant in this community in the last 8 months but this one is politically motivated. “Every person kidnapped in this Community pays ransom and regain freedom but this is being killed,” a member of the community told our correspondent. Akwa Ibom police spokesman SP Odiko Mcdon said he has not received official report on the incident but promised to react once the command is briefed. “The Command has not received any report on the incident yet. I will get back to you when I am briefed,” he said on telephone.