Skin-bleaching techniques, such as the use of skin lotions and soaps to attain a lighter skin tone, are widespread around the world, and generally motivated by cosmetic motivations or low self esteem for one to embrace its skin type. Here are five side effects of skin bleaching: 1. Nephrotic syndrome is a kidney illness caused by damage to the blood vessels that filter waste and excess water in your kidneys. It makes your body expel an excessive amount of protein in your urine. Mercury-containing skin whitening cosmetics have been linked to nephrotic syndrome. Swollen feet and ankles, frothy urine, loss of appetite, and exhaustion are some of the symptoms   How Abuja IDPs camp survives despite inadequate provision     Curbing large bowel, rectal cancer scourge through awareness     Duchess Hospital unveils affordable world-class healthcare…   2. Steroid acne can be caused by skin bleaching products that contain corticosteroids. With long-term usage of corticosteroids, steroid acne typically affects the chest, although it can also appear on the back, arms, and other regions of the body. Whiteheads and blackheads, little red pimples, huge, painful red lumps, and acne scars are all possible symptoms. 3. Exogenous ochronosis (EO) is a skin condition that results in blue-black pigmentation. It commonly happens as a side effect of using hydroquinone-based skin bleaching treatments for a long time. People who use it on a wide scale or on their entire body are more prone to acquire EO. 4. Contact dermatitis has been connected to the use of skin bleaching products in case studies and reports. This is a type of skin inflammation brought on by interaction with certain chemicals. Skin redness, blisters, skin ulcers, hives, dry, scaly skin, swelling, itching, burning, and tenderness are all symptoms that can range from mild to severe. 5. Kidney Disorder This is often caused by damage to the blood vessels in the kidneys responsible for filtering waste and excess water. It causes the body to excrete too much protein in your urine. Skin lightening creams containing mercury have been associated with nephrotic syndrome. Symptoms of this include; foamy urine, loss of appetite, swollen feet and ankles, and fatigue.