Two aspirants of the All Progressives Congress(APC) for Idanre constituency in Ondo Assembly, Barr. Smart Adeuyi Omotadowa and Princess Tosin Ogunlowo, are trading blames over attacks that left many seriously injured. The attack took place last weekend at Starlight junction at Alade-Idanre, Idanre local government area. Many of the injured victims had gunshot injuries while one had his four fingers chopped off. Supporters loyal to Princess Ogunlowo said her convoy was attacked when she was returning from Akure where she submitted her nomination and expression of interest forms. They claimed she was in a convoy of four vehicles when hoodlums loyal to Barr. Omotadowa attacked them with guns and cutlasses. According to one of the supporters who gave his name as Femi: “Princess was not injured in the attack. She was returning from Akure to Idanre and the thugs came out and attacked them with guns, cutlasses and broken bottles. They inflicted injuries on her supporters. They also vandalised the vehicles in the convoy.” But spokesman of the Barr. Omotadowa Campaign Organisation, Mr. Felix Teniola, said the attacked was orchestrated by members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) who are supporters of Princess Ogunlowo.   Kano Assembly postpones resumption by three weeks     Court voids destruction of Estate residents’ movement     Why I visited Nnamdi Kanu, by Soludo   Teniola said the drivers’ union unleashed terror attack on commercial motorcyclists popularly known as ‘Okada’ because they were in support of Omotadowa. According to him: “It is no longer news in Idanre that Okada union and Drivers’ union have shared boundaries in their support for aspirants of the APC ahead of their primaries. “Before these attacks, an informant has called the attention of Smart Adeuyi Omotadowa Campaign Organization (SAOCO) to an unholy gathering of unknown faces at Italorun town, along Akure-Idanre road, who eventually joined the convoy of this said aspirant. “Two of the Okada guys were matcheted beyond redemption and others were shot on their legs. “Smart Omotadowa as a person is too refined to engage any political thug to attack another aspirant. Idanre people knew him to be a gentle and coolheaded being. He has been busy wooing party delegates and winning their hearts to himself. “The Smart Adeuyi Omotadowa Campaign Organisation therefore challenged Ogunlowo alongside Idanre police division to follow us on a visit to the injured and ascertain who among them is her follower or fans, because we believe we will not attack ourselves. “We call on our leaders to come to our aid as this intra party crisis should be nipped in the bud before the major election, as this is not a do or die politics.” Ondo Police spokesman, Funmilayo Odunlami, who confirmed the incident, said it was an fight between supporters of two political aspirants in the area.