Former Nigeria Stock Exchange (NSE) Deputy Director-General, Dr Lance Musa Elakama, has urged Nigerians to embrace entrepreneurship as a way of reducing unemployment. He flayed the poor reading culture among Nigerians, especially the youth and called for a change, noting that knowledge is power. Elakama, who is the Chairman of Oak Group of Companies, said youths should be encouraged to read as it broadens their knowledge on global issues and shapes their destinies. “People no longer read but they should be encouraged to read because knowledge is power. There is no shortcut to it,” he said. Elakama spoke in Lagos at the launch of his three books: Starting and Growing your own Business; Principles in Capital Management; and The Ground Rules for the Journey of Life. He said Starting and growing your own business was targeted at entrepreneurs and small owners on how to boost their businesses. Elakama identified perseverance and high integrity as key ingredients of a thriving business. To tackle the increasing unemployment, he stressed the need for Nigerians to embrace entrepreneurship, saying in doing so, one is taking jobless youths off the streets. “People must learn how to start small. By doing so, you are taking the unemployed off the streets and invariably reducing unemployment. The business enterprise is the way to go.” The author said he wrote the books to give back to society.   Uncertainty in APC over Jonathan, Emefiele, Adesina     INEC rejects parties request for adjustment of polls…      Dollar scarcity pushes more transactions to parallel market   He said: “I believe if you write a book, you are giving back to the society because if you die without passing on your knowledge, it is wasted. “So, one needs to positively impact the younger generation by giving back to them through knowledge sharing. “Writing a book is not an easy task. It requires dedication, determination, tenacity and the burning of the midnight oil. “The primary purpose of writing a book is to share, impart knowledge and wisdom to others, not necessarily to make money. “It is an act of giving back to society. On that premise, I feel fulfilled that I’m giving back to society.” The book reviewers, Femi Awoyemi, Ike Onyechi and Michael Fadeyi, emphasised the importance of reading. They noted that to succeed, one must develop himself through continuous learning. They praised the author and urged him not to rest on his oars. In his goodwill message, Prof Mike Ihariale, said Nigerians should value intellectualism as it is the only way for the country to make progress. He said the three books authored by the former SEC boss are intellectual assets and legacies that must be preserved.