FIVE winners have emerged in the semi-final of the essay competition organised by the Rotary International District 9110. They are Tajudeen Fatimah of Saddiyah Model Schools, Alagbole-Akute; Emmanuel Babatunde of Biyem International Group of Schools; Glory Olaniyo Adolphus of Hearstart Private School; Ifiok Idara Israel of Command Day Secondary School, Ojo and Jesutofunmi Bhadmus of Isolo Senior High School, all of Lagos. They won after a keenly contested presentation that involved 21 pupils from 12 schools who were screened by the clubs in the district. Rotary International District 9110 (Four Way Test) Essay Competition Committee Chairman Adeniyi Otuniyi expressed satisfaction with the event and presentations by the pupils. He said the contest had not only helped to hone the skills of the pupils in writing and presentation, but also enable them to imbibe the tents of the Four Way Test of Rotary to enable them become better citizens.   Okoye hails CBN as medical device saves surgeon’s life     Why we bought form for Kasunmu, by constituents     ‘How govt can make schools safer’   “The essay has helped you to learn one or two things about Rotary, a non-profit organisation, which serves humanity. One of the pillars of Rotary is vocational service where the Four Way Test is learnt and practised. Rotary takes service serious. That is why we embarked on this programme: to drive the youth towards being better citizens. Indeed, to catch them young,” he added. He said the five winners of the yearly event would still go for the finals where only three would eventually be picked. He assured that the winning essays would be published in the Rotary International District magazine to give the winners more publicity. He thanked the schools that participated as well as the clubs that sponsored the pupils. They were: Rotary Clubs of Akute, Isolo, Lagos West, Ikoyi Metro, and Gbagada. Earlier, a Screening panelist /past president, Rotary Club of Akowonjo, Bisi Taiwo, confirmed that 21 essays were submitted. She said their scoring was as done follows: writing 60 per cent; presentation 40 per cent. Another panelist/past president, Kunle Aliyu, advised the pupils to keep to the topic and time, be audible and composed to succeed.