The Ministry of Youths and Sports Development has given the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) more time to name a new technical adviser for the national team. Following the Super Eagles failed bid to qualify for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, the NFF began moves to hire a new coach after Austin Eguavoen and his technical crew were relieved of their positions with. A source revealed that the ministry has insisted that the best manager be appointed while the NFF wants the position to be given to the most affordable candidate. While the NFF listed Portuguese coach Jose Peserio, who they argued is affordable and has agreed to live and work in Nigeria, as a top pick for the position, former PSG manager Laurent Blanc, Ernesto Valverde, formerly with Barcelona, and Toni Conceicao are also candidates they are considering taking over the vacant Super Eagles managerial role. The Nigerian football chiefs have already named Kano Pillars’ boss Salisu Yusuf and Enyimba handler Finidi George as assistant coaches in the Super Eagles.   D’Tigers’ Moneke wins basketball MVP in Spain     NFF elections: Emeruwa unveils plans for coaches, states FA     Man city 5-0 Newcastle: Five-star Man City opens three-point…   The Super Eagles are expected to kick start qualification for the 2023 African Cup of Nations against the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone next month. Sources at the meeting between the Sports Ministry and NFF went very well with both parties agreeing to work together in the interest of Nigerian football. Also the NFF will take the next few days to conduct further interviews with the prospective coaches/candidates seeking to become the Super Eagles Technical Adviser, thereafter NFF will meet with the Ministry to reach a final decision on the matter. Key Performance Indicators, (KPIs) are to be fully worked out and put in place before a new national coach is hired while the Ministry tasked NFF on absolute commitment to the rebuilding process for Nigerian football and the national teams in all areas.