Ahead of tomorrow’s final of the TotalEnergies CAF Confederation Cup 2021/2022,  former Super Eagles goalkeeper Willy Okpara and defender Olisa Ndah  arrived  late last night with their South African team Orlando Pirates to Nigeria. The Soweto-based side who  will face  Morocco’s RS Berkane at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium in Uyo for Africa’s second club football prize, touched down in Port Harcourt about 11:45pm last night before arriving  Uyo 2: 45 am early this morning. In their third appearance in the Confederation Cup, Pirates are playing the final for the second time, and first since 2015 when they lost 2-1 on aggregate to Etoile du Sahel of Tunisia. Okpara made his debut for the Nigeria national team in 1996 and was selected for the 1998 FIFA World Cup squad. He was capped five times and after he retired, became a goalkeeping coach for Orlando Pirates. Meanwhile, RS Berkane  breezed into Uyo earlier yesterday aboard a chartered  Air Maroc flight. Our correspondent gathered  from aviation sources  yesterday  that on board  the Moroccan national carrier were six crew members along  with   96 strong RS Berkane ‘s contingent including players , officials  and  fans  ahead of tomorrow’s final.   Osimhen inches  closer  to Newcastle     Sports Ministry to hold maiden uU18 basketball championship     Messi may join Beckham’s  Inter Miami   The flight that departed  the Oujda Angads Airport in the Oriental region in Morocco  landed in the Akwa Ibom State capital 3:55 pm Nigerian time for their decisive tie against  Orlando Pirates.. The Orange Boys as the Moroccan side are called , were Confederation  Cup   runners-up(to Zamalek of Egypt) in 2019   and emerged winners in 2020 after beating Egyptian side Pyramids Egypt  courtesy of a  solitary goal by  Burkinabe  defender   Issoufou Dayo at the Prince Moulay Abdellah Stadium in Rabat. In a related development,   Umbro, the CAF technical sponsors, yesterday revealed the official match ball , FIFA Quality Pro , for the eagerly awaited  fixture . Based on Umbro’s renowned Neo Pro ball model, the official match ball is “FIFA Quality Pro” certified for use at the highest levels of the professional game and utilizes the latest in structural and fabrication technology with a unique graphic that draws on the structural elements of the tournament’s trophy. Nicole Marcus, Production Manager at Umbro South Africa said: “The Confederation Cup is a showpiece of domestic football and to reach the final of such a prestigious continental tournament is a momentous achievement that should be celebrated. This ball is a celebration of Africa’s football excellence and a tribute to all those who have contributed to it.”