Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Olalekan Balogun, says the unity of Nigeria is non-negotiable. Balogun made the statement in Ibadan on Friday while hosting the delegation of Shehu of Borno, on a congratulatory visit at his Alarere residence. He said that those agitating for the break-up of the country should drop such agenda and proffer solutions to whatever they might have identified as problems necessitating the agitations. The traditional ruler said that he had all along his life been in unity with fellow Nigerians. Balogun noted that he began interaction with Northerners from birth at a railway station in Lalupon, an outskirts of Ibadan, in Lagelu Local Government Area of Oyo state. “My father was a produce merchant and had a lot of Northern customers, together with whom I related with. “I studied Holy Quran with their children and there was no any form of discrimination against anybody.   NRC postpones resumption of Abuja-Kaduna train     We’re reviewing appointment of first FUTA female VC…     UPDATED: Protest in Abuja over council chairmen tenure…   “The language we grew up to know and speak was oneness and when I went to the U.K to study, I made friends with the late Alhaji Abubakar Rimi, the late Alhaji Balarabe Musa and our relationship existed till they all departed this world. “It was my relationship with them that influenced my joining the People’s Redemption Party, founded by the late Alhaji Aminu Kano, when I began politics in the second republic and we remained closed till his death,” he said. Balogun urged the people to continue to preach to their children and grandchildren the bond of love that once existed between Nigerians and de-emphasis differences. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the delegation led by Alhaji Mai Mele Abatcha, the Mai Kanuribe of Lagos presented the congratulatory letter signed by Shehu of Borno to Olubadàn. In the congratulatory letter, Shehu of Borno said that the Yorubas and Kanuris shared common ancestral affinity, traditions and culture since time immemorial. He said that the two tribes should continue to sustain the relationship. “It is my believe that Oba Balogun, as a former distinguished Senator of the Federal Republic, will use his past experiences and good leadership qualities to promote peace, tolerance, unity and greater understanding among all the subjects irrespective of religion, tribe or gender,” he added.(NAN)