The senator representing Ogun East Senatorial District in the Senate, Lekan Mustapha and hundreds of his supporters have joined the mainstream of the All Progressives Congress (APC) led by the State governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun. Senator Mustapha and his supporters have been allies of the immediate past governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun who is leading the faction of the party in the state. During the event, Senator Mustapha commended the governor for spreading projects to all sections of the state, declaring that his senatorial district benefited from various road projects of the present administration more than previous ones in the last 16 years. “I am in total support of governor Abiodun’s second term bid. We are here for work, for the progress of the party, but we must work in unity. There are many things to showcase when the campaign starts. I can assure that we will work hard for the party to win”, Mustapha said. Receiving the senator and his teeming supporters at the Presidential Lodge, Abeokuta, Governor Abiodun commended them for retracing their steps and reuniting with the mainstream, saying their return would strengthen the party to face the challenges ahead. “I am very happy that this is coming from my home base. If I did not have the trust of my people, then I would not have that of other senatorial districts. It is heart-warming that today we are reconciling with my people. We all have opportunity to examine this administration and I am happy you have decided to have a rethink and come for reconciliation.   Drama as Police carry detained Rep Dagogo to court on…     PDP’s decision on zoning sacrosanct, says Diri     Ebonyi PDP primary: 13 aspirants jostle for gubernatorial…   “You are all welcome home. As a father of the party in the state, when any of us strays away and decides to come back, I have no option but to receive you because it makes me a happy person. Let me assure you and your team that you’re being welcomed back with open hands. We run an open door government. You will not be discriminated upon, I call on our leaders, chairmen at the ward and local government levels to accord you the same privileges like others, you should be treated equally”, Abiodun stated. While assuring the returnees that his administration would continue to be fair, inclusive, accountable, equitable and just, Abiodun urged them to register as party members and be responsible by attending ward and council meetings, especially now that political activities are gathering momentum. He, however, warned against any form of division in the party, noting everyone is a member of the family. “Please join hands with us as a big family as we continue to build the future of this great state together”, the governor submitted. Earlier, the state chairman of the party, Yemi Sanusi, recalled the circumstance that led to the breakaway which he said was not pleasant to many, describing the return of party members as a joyous occasion. “I am welcoming you back into our midst. Since you have decided to come back home, the war is over. We shall all celebrate at the M.K.O Abiola Stadium come May 29, 2023”, Sanusi stated.