The Nigeria Labour Congress has taken a swipe at Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, for failing to pay the entitlements of pensioners and public workers in the state . The congress lamented that two years after reaching a Collective Bargaining Agreement with the state workers and pensioners, the state government had reneged in honouring the CBA. According to the NLC, some of the issues highlighted in the CBA are: non-promotion of civil servants eligible for promotion since 2012; non-payment of salaries arrears to civil servants not paid February and March 2016 salaries due to the aborted 2016 biometric verification; non-harmonisation of pension for state retirees; and non-payment of pension arrears, gratuities and death benefits to retirees in Rivers thus exposing them to unimaginable pains and trauma. Others are: non-implementation of pension incremental rates; and non-implementation of annual salary increments for state workers.   Jonathan goes AWOL     2023: A crowded presidential race     Leadership, legacy and recycling   But in a statement signed by the NLC President, Ayubba Wabba, on Friday in Abuja, the Congress said: “Unfortunately, till date, Your  Excellency has failed to act on the report of the Tripartite Committee contrary to the agreement reached with the Rivers State Government which by our national laws and international labour conventions has a binding force of law. “We are also amiss at the continued failure of Rivers State to pay the terminal benefits of retirees for the past seven years despite the viability of Rivers State which is at par with Lagos State as Nigeria’s most financially solvent state. “The gale of donations to different causes by Your Excellency has not escaped the attention of hungry workers and pensioners in Rivers State who watch as their state adorns the robe of Father Christmas to other states while their salaries and pension are withheld. Many in Rivers State now believe that the maxim, ‘charity begins at home’ does not apply to Rivers State. “We learnt that workers in the states now go about in black mourning robes and the children of retirees now protest naked in public. Those are ominous signs. “Your Excellency, we appeal to the milk of your human kindness and your vows as a revered life bencher to respect our labour laws and the agreement you signed with Organised Labour and implement the resolutions in the Tripartite Committee Report so as to restore industrial peace in Rivers State.”