Operatives of the Lagos Police Command have arrested the suspects in connection of the mob justice meted a sound engineer, David Imoh, 38, at Lekki. Imoh was lynched and subsequently set ablaze by a mob consisting of motorcycle operators on Thursday on his way home for reasons yet to be known. While an account claimed the disagreement was over N100, another alleged that Imoh and two of his friends were accused of kidnapping and attacked by the motorcyclists said to be of northern extraction. It was alleged that Imoh boarded the motorcycle from a club to a location at Admiralty Way when a disagreement ensued between him and the rider. The argument was said to have degenerated into a fight which attracted other motorcyclists. They were said to have beaten the sound engineer and his friends who came to intervene with sticks, clubs and other dangerous instruments. “David became unconscious and fell to the ground. The mob later set his unconscious body on fire before help could come his way,” said a source. His murder has generated outcry on the social media with the #JusticeForDave currently trending.   The Nigerian church needs to wake up — Umunna     UBEC to carry out fresh headcount of primary, secondary…     Buhari deserves commendation from Ndigbo   A colleague of the deceased said the incident occurred in front of a bar where they has gone to perform, adding that Imoh had gone to set up the instruments. He said: “We called on the police to intervene, they showed up and even fired two shots in the air to disperse the mob. IT DIDNT WORK!! “They were only able to rescue two of our musicians who were already beaten to a pulp! Sadly, our sound engineer Dave became the casualty.” One Ope King who said the deceased was her brother-in-law, wrote: “This is my brother-in-law! One of the nicest people I have ever met. Brutally and unjustly killed by Hausa Bike-men because he was having a misunderstanding with one of their bikeman. Lagos is no longer safe… Lagos Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, has ordered homicide detectives at the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) to go after the remaining members of the mob. Lagos Police spokesman (PPRO), SP Benjamin Hundeyin, who confirmed the killing said all the culprits have been arrested. He said: “I can authoritatively confirm that all the perpetrators of this heinous crime have been arrested. They will all be prosecuted. Say no to jungle justice! “One must not take laws into one’s hand no matter the degree of provocation. A crime has been committed and the police will treat the issue from that premise. “The command would not tolerate any case of injustice, mob action or murder, no matter the degree of provocation.”