Ex- Secretary to the State Government (SSG) of Sokoto Mallam Sa’idu Umar (Mallam Ubandoman Sokoto) has emerged the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial flag bearer in the State. Former Commissioner for Environment, Hon. Sagir Bafarawa, who also took a shot at the position, will be running mate of Umar. Also by consensus, Sokoto Deputy Governor Hon. Manir Muhammad Dan Iya was allotted the choice of contesting for a Senatorial position. In the exercise supervised by Dr Tom Zakari from the party’s national headquarters, Umar polled 695 votes of the total 755 delegates. Other aspirants for the gubernatorial slot, who stepped down for Umar were a former Deputy Governor , Hon. Mukhtar Shagari and the current PDP chairman of the State, Hon. Bello Aliyu Goronyo. Speaking at the primary, Gov. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal thanked the delegates for a smooth conduct of the exercise right from state assembly, National assembly ta the governorship primaries. He commended the members and leaders of the PDP in the state for their patriotism and loyalty.   APC primary: Ondo Aspirants protest delay in counting votes     Lawal wins Zamfara PDP guber ticket     APC and plot to draft Jonathan into presidential race   He also commended the officials that came from national headquarters of the PDP and staff of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), who conducted and monitored the exercise respectively. Sokoto PDP chairman, Alhaji Bello Aliyu Goronyo, thanked the Governor for giving all the necessary support and cooperation to the party. While congratulating all the winners of primary elections in various seats of the party, he also thanked the party supporters for the cooperation towards the successful conduct of the exercise. Umar thanked the Governor and party supporters in the State for giving him the opportunity to be its representative in the 2023 general elections. Sa‘Idu also said Gov. Tambuwal has in the seven years of his administration laid the foundation for transformation of the State to the highest level, stressing that his emergence as the PDP candidate in the shows the great leadership qualities og Tambuwal while demonstrating the unity among party members in the state. He enumerated the numerous achievements recorded by the current administration as: education, youth development, healthcare delivery and agriculture among others. He assured the people of the State that he will continue to improve and maintain what Gov. Aminu Tambuwal has attained, particularly his legacies of consensus building, team work and inclusiveness. Ubandoma also assured party faithful that he would join hands with the party supporters to win the 2023 general elections.