Super Falcons captain, Onome Ebi, is confident Nigeria would not be intimidated by South Africa’s Bayana Bayana when they clash in one of the standout preliminary group matches of the forthcoming 2022 Women’s Africa Women Cup of Nations (WAFCON) to be held in Morocco in July. Drawn in Group C along with Burundi and Botswana , Nigeria and South Africa would open the group’s account at the Stade Moulay Hassan in Rabat on July 4 in what would be a repeat of the 2018 Final Match in Ghana where the Super Falcons trumped Bayana Bayana 4-3 on penalties after they both tied goalless after extra time. Speaking in Lagos on the margins of the Nigeria Women Football League (NWFL) Premiership Super Six on Tuesday, Onome who would be making her seventh WAFCON appearance in Morocco, said the Super Falcons would be at the ready. “The AWCON draw is good and playing the opening match against South Africa for instance is nothing new ,” the four-time AWCON winner told NationSport. “At the 2018 Championship in Ghana, we were in the same group and we also played the final match of the competition.”   Dare brands Bayelsa wrestling industry of Nigeria     UCL: Real Madrid to face Liverpool as comeback stuns Man…     FIFA confirms details of final two play-off places for Qatar…   She continued: “ It is going to be another rematch in Morocco; overtime, we have learned so much playing against South Africa and don’t forget that they beat us last time last year in the Aisha Buhari Cup in Lagos. “I know many would have said Nigeria ‘s Super Falcons are down but that is just a game and as you know, you win and lose some. But the most important thing is for us to prepare well and we have been working hard lately and playing against them in our first game in Morocco would be exciting to see. “ The former Omidiran Babes and Bayelsa Queens defensive stalwart however, insisted that the Super Falcons hold no fear for the Bayana Bayana , adding Nigeria is as good as wining her 10th title. “We don’t need to fear playing against South Africa , rather we just want to go out there and do what we know how to do best by retaining the trophy and get the ticket to the coming FIFA World Cup in Australia and New Zealand in 2023,” she said.“ With Nigerians backing us, we are going to still win the AWCON in Morocco.”