Nigeria is a nation on trial and at no time in the nation’s history has negative evidence mounted this high, especially against the lead defendants—the federal government of President Muhammadu Buhari and the political parties, especially the one that he leads, namely, the All Progressives Congress. Fortunately, for you and me, we, the voters, are the jury, while the judges are the Independent National Electoral Commission and the Courts. The prosecutors are Civil Society Organisations, rights activists, and a team of people’s lawyers, led by Femi Falana (SAN). Judgement has been fixed for several days in February 2023. But the road to 2023 has been very rough, with evidence mounting by the day against the lead defendants and key institutions in the land. The evidence straddles all spheres of national life, most especially security; the economy; education; and the electoral process. I will discuss these sectors but not in any particular order. The nation’s economy is in shambles. The federal government has borrowed heavily to fund its budget and pay workers’ salaries! The states have done the same, even when many of them still owe months of workers’ salary arrears. According to the Debt Management Office, the nation’s combined external and domestic debt portfolio stood at nearly N40 trillion as of December 31, 2021. It is said that as much as 87 percent of the nation’s revenue earnings is now spent on servicing the debt. To be sure, no nation on earth—not even the United States, reputedly the most powerful nation—is completely without debt. They all borrow. But none uses up her reserve and then borrows trillions against unforeseeable revenue like Nigeria. And only Nigeria uses as much as 87 percent of her total revenue earnings on debt servicing. Let’s hope that creditors will not laugh at us as the Speaker of our Parliament mobilises fellow Speakers on the continent to ask for debt forgiveness. It is one thing for a nation to borrow heavily. It is another for citizens to see concrete evidence of the loans in projects that have direct impact on their lives. Although you may not have felt it directly in your area, the impact of the loans is undeniable in the infrastructure sector, especially transportation facilities, notably roadways, railroads, and airports. There is also modest growth in the local production of certain food items, such as rice. But at what cost, when inflation and commodity prices are at an all time high? Similarly, questions remain on why there has been noticeable spike in insecurity across the country, despite repeated borrowings to enhance the nation’s security architecture. True, Boko Haram may have been decimated to a reasonable extent, but bandits and kidnappers now routinely attack schools, villages, farmlands, worship centres, roadways, railroads, and even airport tarmacs. While the Southeast has been struggling with IPOB’s stay-at-home order, a no-farming order is raging in Zamfara state in the Northwest. To complicate matters, the nation’s power grid collapses from time to time, while petrol tanker, gas, and pipeline explosions occur frequently, reflecting the poor governance model adopted by the government.   2022 UTME: JAMB rules out errors in scoring system     Malami chickens out ‘patriotically’     Presidency, NEF disagree over alleged breakup suggestion   While the security sector may have been overfunded, but with poor results, the education sector is grossly underfunded. Instead of funding existing universities, the federal government has been busy establishing new ones. The federal government has been sitting on billions of Naira of education tax in UBEC and TETFund, which the managers of basic and higher education have difficulty in accessing. The deteriorating condition of nursery/primary, secondary, and tertiary education has led to the mushrooming of private institutions across the sector. University teachers have been on strike for months over funding issues, and there is no end in sight. Given the location of educational institutions in the states, the Federal Government should have no business in education other than setting policies on standards and promoting special programmes, such as STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) education. This is the kind of education that would enable the youths to derive maximum benefit from the Technology Hubs being set up by the government. It is not enough for our youths to be consumers of tech innovations. They should be producers of such innovations, by focusing on Artificial Intelligence and Robotics education in the Technology Hubs. The cumulative effect of the COVID-19 pandemic and the ASUU strikes has produced the longest out-of-school experience for the youths. Lack of gainful employment and pervasive corruption in the society has pushed them to criminal activities, including recruitment into banditry and engagement in fraudulent money-making ventures. Rampant killings by bandits and kidnappers, apparently without repercussions, may have encouraged Yahoo Plus, a subset of Yahoo Boys, to turn to money rituals, involving killings of girl friends and relatives. The end result is a serious puncture in the moral fabric of society. Unfortunately, however, federal and state governments have gone into the lame duck session. Governance is on hold as they focus on the 2023 elections. Yet, the road to the elections has been the most bizarre in the nation’s history, with political parties changing their tactics and moving deadlines as the process unfolds. The convention of rotational presidency, adopted since 1999, has come under attack. As a result, the two major political parties now have over 40 aspirants between them. What is more, the two political parties have raised nearly N44 billion from selling nomination and expression of interest forms to the aspirants. While Civil Society Organisations were calling for a probe into the sources of these funds, the EFCC arrested the Accountant General of the Federation (that is, the administrative head of the Treasury), Ahmed Idris, in connection with the alleged diversion of funds and money laundering, involving N80 billion. There can be no better metaphor for corruption than this one. With the nation’s Treasury now being viewed as Corruption Incorporated, observers are already wondering why the search light should not extend to the Central Bank of Nigeria, whose Governor, Godwin Emefiele, dilly-dallied on running for President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, even while still in office. These then are the backgrounds against which the 2023 general elections will be held. The common saying during election seasons in the United States is “The economy, stupid!” In our own case, the major bane of our economy is the duo of corruption and poor governance. Effective fight against corruption will free up resources and good governance would deploy such resources judiciously. Can 2023 produce a President up to these tasks?