A total of 7,256 trained Nigerian nurses left this country for the United Kingdom between March 2021 and March 2022, entrenching the massive brain drain that has befallen the medical sector just like some others. The Nursing and Midwifery Council of the United Kingdom issued a report last week showing the trend is worsening – with the number of emigrants in the last year nearly doubling that in the previous ear. According to the report, 2,796 Nigerian nurses migrated to the UK between March 2017 and March 2018, rising to 3,021 between March 2018 and March 2019. There was further uptick to 3,684 nurses between March 2019 and March 2020; and amidst the global health emergency of the COVID-19 pandemic and attendant lockdown, the number rose to 4,310 Nigerian nurses who registered with the council between March 2020 and March 2021. The surge heightened to 7,256 Nigerian trained nurses between March 2021 and March 2022. According to the data from the UK nurses’ council, Nigeria has the third highest number of foreign trained nurses practising in that country, coming after India and the Philippines.   Expensive bread     MPR and the economy     ‘Okada’ menace   Reports in  September, last year, indicated that nearly 900 Nigerian doctors were licensed to practice in the UK between July 24, 2020 and September 21, 2021. According to information sourced from the website of the General Medical Council, the body that licenses and maintains the official register of medical practitioners in the UK, no fewer than 353 Nigerian medical doctors were licensed in that country within 100 days spanning June 10 to September 20, 2021. In all, 8,737 doctors trained in Nigeria were practising in the UK at the time – a number certain to have risen even higher by now. The point to infer here obviously is that the sectoral brain drain has been left unchecked and is actually deepening. It is some historical irony that hospitals are no longer ‘mere consulting clinics’ – one of the reasons cited by the military junta led by current President Muhammadu Buhari (then as military General) that sacked politicians from power in 1983; hospitals are worse off now because there are no personnel available to consult, with most of them having moved abroad to ply their trade. The major factors accounting for this trend remain poor personnel remuneration, inadequate sectoral funding, showing in low grade facilities, and general societal insecurity, among others. Reacting to last week’s statement on mass emigration of nurses, the National Association of Nigerian Nurses and Midwives called on government to redress the trend as it was negatively impacting the health sector. Experience has shown that every country with dramatic success story, like Singapore and Rwanda, built their successes on a unique capacity to attract back skilled nationals abroad, and gainfully engage and retain them to develop the local economies.  Closer home, there was the old Western Region under the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo which spent hugely on training manpower at different levels but also committed the trained personnel to deploying the skills acquired to develop the regional economy.  The converse is the case with the sectoral brain drain whereby medical personnel whose respective training was largely subsidised from the Nigerian treasury are taking their skills abroad because the local environment is stifling and unattractive.  And the fact that they find market for their skills abroad bear testimony to the high standard of their training. In other words, the many mishaps experienced in Nigerian healthcare delivery is not because of poor competency of personnel, but rather that the system obstructs them from putting their training to the best use. Government must rise to the challenge of adequately funding the sector and make it sufficiently attractive to retain medical personnel at home. This is in addition to ensuring the security of lives and property in the country.