Auto insurance is globally a $740 billion industry, and transactions worth millions of dollars occur every day in the US. With high insurance prices, a high minimum coverage limit, and astounding insurance payouts, you’d be surprised and shocked to know how much money goes in and out of auto insurance. Whenever there’s money, there’s a fraud as well. And one of the most common sectors where fraud is rampant is auto insurance. It is so common that there are varieties of insurance frauds, and some could be very elaborate. This article will go into detail about every type of auto insurance fraud, the reason and motive behind it, and some ways to recognize auto insurance fraud. Since auto insurance fraud is such a broad subject, we’ll include both types of insurance fraud, i.e., insurance fraud by policyholders and insurance fraud by insurance companies. Whenever you get an insurance policy, it does not have to be auto or health insurance, you get a coverage amount. So the barebones definition of it would be that you pay the insurance company a regular premium (which is some amount of money) to keep your insurance valid. So in the case of an accident or emergency, the company would pay you the coverage amount. But here’s the problem, you do not want anything bad to happen to your car, health, house, etc and neither does the insurance company. But you still have to pay for the insurance. This is how insurance companies make money. This is where greed comes in. The most common type of insurance fraud is the one committed by policyholders. Since they have been paying the premium for so long, they want to cash in on the coverage amount. But that’s not all, sometimes insurance companies or agents commit insurance fraud by scamming people, selling them overpriced policies, or even subtle making them fall for jargon and giving poor coverage. Let’s look in detail at all the different types of auto insurance fraud committed by both companies and policyholders. There have been many cases when insurance companies and most insurance agents have committed fraud. While it might not be considered a fraud completely, withholding information from the people before selling the auto insurance is a way of scamming them. Many people get auto insurance policies that are expensive and do not cover the basic requirements, only to find out how lacking their insurance policy is when the terms and conditions are being pointed to them. The best way to avoid it is by comparing different auto insurance companies, looking at their coverage in detail, and choosing the best affordable car insurance provider there is in the market. Know everything and ask every question about the policy before buying one.   Purit Unveils Toyin Abraham as Brand Ambassador for 30 years…     Logistics and legislation holding back awesome power of…     How To Engage In Online Games While Taking Care Of The…   Scammers Most of the time, it is not the auto insurance company that commits the fraud, but someone who pretends to be from the auto insurance company. They might pose as your insurance agent and ask for sensitive information, even ask you to make some payments. Remember to never share any sensitive information over the phone. If the insurance company needs something that you think could lead to a scam, it is better to physically go to the company and ask them about it. Most of these scams will have an element of fear, which usually starts with “your auto insurance policy will expire if you don’t make this payment” or somewhere along these lines. Never believe such statements. Always contact your insurance companies. And one more pro tip; no auto insurance company will ever ask you to pay through gift cards or any other discrete form of payment. Auto insurance fraud by policyholders is a global phenomenon, and it is committed in every country. Many people assume that since they have been paying the premium, they deserve the coverage amount. But what they don’t know is that the coverage amount was never theirs. The premium they paid was for the risk management, for the security that if something happens, they can get the money. The most common insurance fraud is by deliberately damaging the vehicle by either disposing of it, drowning it, setting it on fire, or totaling it in a planned accident. Whatever be the way, the result is a totaled car and the policyholder looking for the settlement money. Another more common insurance fraud is by inflating the cost of repairs, or the damages to the vehicle. So if someone got a minor dent, they might add some extra damage to the body, or just inflate the cost of repairs to get more money from the insurance company. Not only against the company, but some people also commit insurance fraud against the company and the policyholder. Imagine driving your car under the speed limit and you see a pedestrian crossing the road. So you slow down and bring your car to a halt. But to your surprise, the pedestrian just runs into your car and falls, claiming that you hit him/her. Now your liability coverage will have to pay for the injury caused. The best way to avoid such insurance fraud is by having a dashcam installed. They are reasonably priced and can help you in a lot of tight situations. Coming to why you should avoid committing insurance fraud or even stop someone from doing so? Would a five-year prison sentence and up to a $50,000 fine be a compelling reason? Depending on the state you are in and the state of your insurance fraud, you could be looking at a few years or months of prison time and a hefty fine. Not to forget that after you serve the sentence, practically no insurance company would take your application. It is not very easy to succeed in insurance fraud and it’s not worth it.