Managing Director, Chartwell Securities  Limited, Mr Oluwole Adeosun has been elected as the new president and chairman of the Governing Council of the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS). The CIS is the self-regulatory organisation that regulates the practice of stockbroking and it is the largest professional body in the capital market. Adeosun, a former 1st Vice President, succeeded the erstwhile President, Mr Olatunde Amolegbe whose tenure has been roundly commended for several achievements. The institute’s  2nd Vice President, Mr Oluropo Dada also emerged the 1st Vice President . The change in leadership was at the institute’s hybrid annual general meeting (AGM) in Lagos. Adeosun shall be formally inaugurated at the institute’s investiture programme later this year. Adeosun, a Fellow of the institute and multidimensional professional, brings on board more than two decades of experience in the financial market.   Transcorp grows net profit by 147% in Q1     Cedrus Group to bridge SMEs’ gaps with innovative solutions     Nigerian equities hit 14-year high amid bargain-hunting   A product of the prestigious Loyola College, Ibadan, he holds a B.Sc. (Hons) in Business Administration from the University of Ilorin in 1986 and capped it with Master’s Degree in Business Administration (MBA) and specialises in Finance and Banking from University of Lagos in 1993.  Adeosun trained at Coopers and Lybrand (Chartered Accountants) now PricewaterhouseCoopers and qualified as a Chartered Accountant in May 1991. He later qualified as a Chartered Stockbroker and Banker. He has been a long-standing member of the Governing Council of the CIS since April 2013 and has served as the institute’s First Vice President in 2020-2022 and Second Vice President from 2018 to 2020. He also served as a member of the finance and general-purpose committee of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria and its investment subcommittee. Among the highlights of the meeting was the re-election of Mrs Fiona Ahimie and Mr Adeyemi Aina to the institute’s Governing Council and election of Mr Ayodeji Ebo and Mrs Elile Olutimayin to the board. Adeosun is a fellow of many professional bodies including Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) and Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN) , among others. Senior stockbrokers commended the principal officers and management of the institute for its visibility and returning to profitability despite the inclement operating environment. Among them were Mrs Elizabeth Ebi, Group Managing Director of Futureview Group, Mr Oladipo Aina and Mr Oluwaseyi Abe, both past presidents.