Planning a trip? Nothing beats traveling with peace of mind like having travel insurance that counts. What is Travel Insurance Travel insurance is a type of insurance cover that protects you against the financial dangers of traveling. When you travel for work or pleasure, it makes sure you’re covered in case of accidents, illness, property damage like lost luggage, a delayed flight, a missed flight, medical emergency, personal money loss, or trip cancellation. 5 Reasons You Need Travel Insurance 1. Unanticipated medical expenses Regardless of how carefully we plan, several things might go wrong while traveling, making us feel especially exposed while on unfamiliar terrain. The cost of a medical emergency that we had not budgeted for may cause financial hardship, turning the entire vacation experience into a nightmare. This is when travel insurance comes in handy. It essentially provides coverage for medical emergencies. 2. Changes in Travel Plans We may need to cancel our trip arrangements from time to time. What are the odds that you won’t be able to take the trip you’ve planned for months? This was happening before the pandemic, but it is even more so now. You may have requested time off work, scheduled everything perfectly, and completed all the documentation, but there are factors beyond your control. Having travel insurance means that you can use trip cancellation coverage if something unexpected happens, you may get your money back or reschedule your vacation. Travel insurance serves as a safety net. 3. Lost, stolen, or delayed baggage You can be reimbursed for lost, stolen, or damaged baggage or personal things with personal baggage coverage in travel insurance. When your bag goes missing, travel insurance comes in handy. If your baggage is delayed or misdirected by a common carrier for 24 hours or longer, baggage delay benefits may pay you for the reasonable extra purchase of essential items during your trip. Based on the restrictions in your insurance policy, baggage loss or damage benefits can compensate you for the real price, actual cash worth, repair, or replacement of your lost or damaged things, whichever is less.   COTP: Earn Over 3.6% daily with U.S Licensed Crypto…     THE DIABETES DRUG THAT SAVED ME FROM CUTTING MY LEG     Verified: Best  sites to sell gift cards, redeem itunes,…   4. Delayed flight Flight delays or rescheduling are regular occurrences during overseas travel. A flight delay or cancellation may throw your entire trip off course. Even if the flight delay or cancellation is beyond your control, such as when an airline cancels the trip, you are still obligated to pay for any prepaid lodging or event charges. These expenses can be reduced with travel insurance. You need travel insurance with travel delay benefits, which can compensate you for additional lodging, food, or travel expenditures, as well as missed prepaid fees if your flight is delayed due to a covered delay. You’ll be a lot happier if you have insurance that will pay for your airport meal or an unplannedadditional night in a hotel. 5. Canceled trip One of the reasons individuals seek travel insurance is the fear of having to cancel their trip and losing the money they’ve already paid for it. Life is unpredictable, and you never know what will happen between the time you arrange a vacation and the time you leave. If you believe you are spending more money on your vacation than you can afford to lose, you should consider purchasing travel insurance. Even the best-planned journeys can occasionally be canceled. One of the most compelling reasons to get travel insurance is the protection of trip cancellation rewards. When you must cancel for a covered cause, they can compensate you for planned, nonrefundable travel fees. When you get your money back, you may reschedule your vacation for a brighter day. Insure Your Trip Today Are you traveling for holidays and/or business purposes? Leadway Assurance has travel insurance that fulfills your needs and the requirements of immigration authorities of foreign countries. They provide cover for travelers up to the age of 70, and it can also extend to 85 years. For more information on the array of travel insurance plans available for you to access, please visit Leadway or call the Leadway Assurance Financial Management Experts on 01-2800-70 or email Lcs@leadway.com for professional advice. You call also Request a call back