A consortium of Falcon Corporation, ND Western Midstream Limited and FHN Gas Limited, has been selected to build, own, and operate a natural gas distribution infrastructure network within the Lagos Free Zone (LFZ). This will be actualised through the incorporation of a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV): Optimera Energy LFZ Enterprise (Optimera Energy) within the Lagos Free Zone (LFZ). The signing of the agreement held at the LFZ head office in Victoria Island. Under this arrangement, the Consortium, through Optimera Energy, would deliver uninterrupted piped gas by early 2024 to enterprises in the Lagos Free Zone. The Managing Director, Optimera Energy, Mrs. Audrey Joe-Ezigbo, who praised the parties to the agreement, said it was an indication that the consortium is passionate about a common goal of accelerating the further growth of domestic gas utilisation in the country.   NB, Konexa boost renewable energy     ‘Nigeria over due for full deregulation, subsidy removal’     Rising IOC’s asset sale and NNPC’s intervention   She noted that the endeavour would be a step towards actualising the objectives of the “Decade of Gas” initiative of the Federal Government of which gas-based industrial growth is a significant part. “The Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) provides the necessary regulatory environment for projects such as these to succeed in Nigeria. We look forward to working collaboratively with the group. Having reliable dedicated gas supply infrastructure installed in the LFZ adds tremendous value to existing industrial concerns and will increase the Zone’s attractiveness to future customers,” Joe-Ezeigbo said. Similarly, the Managing Director and CEO of LFZ, Mr. Dinesh Rathi, said the partnership is a testimony to the continued efforts at the Zone to provide a world-class industrial ecosystem that enhances the competitive positioning of Nigeria as a manufacturing hub. He explained that with Lekki Port’s construction slated to be completed in December, there was the need to secure a reliable arrangement to meet the energy needs of the LFZ’s fast-growing tenant base. Rathi expressed confidence that the partnership would help realise the same objective it desires particularly in providing infrastructure in the zone. “This is a unique transaction in the history of Nigeria’s downstream sector wherein a consortium formed of reputable upstream, midstream, and downstream companies have come together to ensure gas supply to LFZ, the sunrise economic epicentre of West Africa,” he said.