To the religious bigot, humanity is barely skin-deep. He lives in a world of surfaces, a world of masks and artifice. Thus he espouses the absoluteness of externals. To such a zealot, Deborah Samuel’s murder was both a performance of surface religiosity and an ode to the inhumane. It was yet another premise of mindless violence. The deceased student’s ill-starred end is hardly the consequence of an unpardonable crime. It represents a radical theatricality in which wild artifice is dubiously interpreted as fine morality. Deborah incited the mindless horde in her bid to enforce order perhaps in a social medium; she allegedly chided her mates for sharing religious posts in a classroom Whats App forum. But her rebuke of the culprits resonated as the culmination of a protracted toxic exchange between the parties. It was yet another shriek of Nigeria’s fractured, fractious religious war. As Nigeria dissects Deborah’s misfortune, we must be wary of the anarchic danger of fostering misinterpretations. Was Deborah’s tirade borne of intolerance or someone’s previous insult to her faith? Did she overreact? If that’s the argument against her, how justifiable is the reaction of her killers? There is an urgent need to establish the full context of Deborah’s outburst. Did she react to a threat? Whatever the details, it was gross and unjustifiable to lay a finger on her. Interpretations of her tirade differ across sophists’ soapboxes and media platforms. Parties advance narratives amenable to their prejudices. It’s for the most part base sentimentality. The Holy Quran cites several blasphemous attacks by non-believers against Prophet Muhammed (PBUH), but no consequence or physical punishment for the perpetrators. Rather the punishment for blaspheming God and His messenger is emphasised to be God’s exclusive preserve. The authority to punish blasphemers, as an Islamic scholar, Abdulrazaq Hamzat, rightly notes, has not been delegated to anyone. Not even the Prophet. Despite the ill-treatment and disrespect shown to both the Prophet and the Quran, Allah instructed him not to retaliate, because He (Allah) is sufficient to deal with those who commit blasphemy against Him, His beloved messenger and holy book. The Quran further educates Muslims on what they should do when blasphemy is committed against their religion. Allah says: “When you hear the sign of Allah being denied and mocked at, sit not with them until they engage in a talk other than that, for, in that case, you would be like them. (Q4:141).” “With such beautiful guidance promoted in the Quran, how can anyone contend that the punishment of death for blasphemy is justified in Islam?” notes Hamzat while quoting Sheikh Tahir in his piece. Predictably, the social space has morphed into a war zone in the wake of Deborah’s death, as citizens engage in battle frenzy; like medieval crusaders in visceral herds, they mentalise war and seek to actualise it. Predictably, media platforms offer fosterage of dubious sophistry in patronage of the warring herds. Most commentators are not saying anything new, however. Like spectres of battle sound, they amplify prejudice and slaughter jazz. Ultimately, they refasten the religious war harness and enable Pyrrhic claims to victory of their favoured divides. Shame. In the wake of the Sokoto crisis, several bigots have seized the trending toxicity to advance their gospels of hate and Islamophobia. It’s oft amusing to see Christian fanatics subject every Muslim to unfair labelling, accusing them of complicity in Deborah’s killing. Every Muslim is innately violent, they’d say.   Beyond bestiality     Because our daughters sleep with dogs (1)     Boy apocalypse: Beyond the applause   While more enlightened Muslim groups have been seen to recoil from the random attacks launched against them across both formal and informal social circuits, less informed characters have been seen to engage their traducers in heated arguments, oft to unwholesome ends. As clergymen, journalists, teachers, and school administrators dissociate faith from compassion and pure thought, the brilliant sheen of bias in Nigeria’s popular religions makes the eye “glide” along its shiny surface. The hardness repels vision, like medieval savagery cast unto humane civilisation. Beyond the arguments and counter-arguments, ‘gospel’ truths and relative truths, sophistry and arrant bigotry, a bitter truth subsists about the Sokoto religious debacle: that several faithful practice faith without compassion, salvation without spirit. The killer mob’s reactionary premise is borne out by political history, where herd tyranny weakened centralised authority, aiding the blooming of anarchy and the ethnoreligious mob. Since independence, the history of Nigeria is replete with variations of religious chaos fostered in the foundry of errant bigotries and herd irrationality. Mayhem is the rule. Religious war and intolerance are, however, a disease of the poor. The political class looting our coffers does not engage in ‘pious’ wars in their circuits of expediences. Rather they hobnob and marry off their children in oft arranged inter-ethnic and inter-religious marriages. About 800 choice assets bought in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE), by looted funds, have been traced to some ex-governors, ministers, senators, and military officers in Nigeria. Such loot would serve a better purpose if committed to youth empowerment and infrastructure development. Yet most of the looters are self-confessed Christians and Muslims, and they co-exist as landlords and neighbours in Dubai, a Sharia province, without incident. Indeed, religious intolerance is the plague of Nigerian segments rendered bitter and disillusioned by poverty and bad governance. It’s an avenue for them to let loose their frustrations and reenact against each other, the oppression they suffer at the hands of the ruling class. When presumed intellectuals jump in the fray, they often do so as a necessary performance of prejudice. They are never found at the crossroads, where ‘righteous souls’ clash and maim their reckless spirits. Theirs is to incite Nigeria into a needless war in fulfillment of their treasonous pieties and questionable allegiances. Like I opined in the wake of the Kwara hijab crisis, there is a paranoiac neuron characteristic of the Christian and Muslim bigot; it is resident in the terrorists that abducted Leah Sharibu and subjected her to sexual captivity and premature motherhood. It is resident in every Nigerian, who sees something horrid in a harmless school girl donning the hijab. It is the affliction of the mob that hacked Deborah Samuel to death. Bigotry thwarts humane understanding. It keeps the faithful mired in sulfurous rhetoric and whim. It destroys the search for the common good; it dices faith, the faithful, and finally religious leadership into venomous, weaponised fragments. Bigotry allows religious faithful to retreat into self-imposed tyrannies and ‘sacred’ grottoes while neglecting the most pressing spiritual, moral, political, and cultural questions. Those who critique the system itself are stigmatised and shut out of the mainstream debate. Religious bigots resort to emotion cultism, whereby, they banish self-criticism. They characteristically refuse to question the self-justifying system that drives their gospel of hate. In 1967, Theodor Adorno wrote an essay titled “Education After Auschwitz.” He argued that the moral corruption that made the Holocaust possible remained “largely unchanged” and that “the mechanisms that render people capable of such deeds” must be uncovered, examined, and critiqued through education. Schools had to teach more than skills. They had to teach values. If they did not, another Auschwitz was always possible. “All political instruction finally should be centered upon the idea that Auschwitz should never happen again,” he wrote: This would be possible only when it devotes itself openly, without fear of offending any authorities, to this most important of problems. To do this, education must commit itself to progressive sociology, that is, it must teach about the societal play of forces that operates beneath the surface of social, economic, political, and religious forms.