The National Universities Commission (NUC) has accredited more courses for the Oduduwa University, Ipoetumodu, Osun State. Computer Engineering, Electrical Electronics Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Architecture, in addition to many that had hitherto enjoyed the commission’s full accreditation across all colleges of the institution, were given full accreditation. The NUC officials, as a statutory government agency saddled with the task of overseeing and ensuring the smooth running of the Nigerian Universities system and academic programmes with its high-powered delegation of seasoned accreditation team, were at the Oduduwa University campus recently for the exercise. A statementby the Registrar, Princess Adeline Adeyemi, said: “This is good news for our university. On behalf of the entire management, I congratulate and appreciate everyone that has made this feat possible. “We as a university that is grounded in meeting research and learning as a key development tool for the next generation of leaders in all fields, are benefiting from the consistent strides, initiated and monitored by the commission, which has helped us to live up to expectations and also catapult us to such enviable and commendable heights. “This indeed is an attestation of hard work, particularly in the area of financial support from our founder and Chancellor, Dr. Abdulrahman Adegoke Atobatele Adedoyin, as we remain focused and promise never to relent. “Indeed, the vision of positioning the university as one of the top 10 leading universities in the world is gradually becoming a reality.”     Only recently, in the list of the best 50 Nigerian universities, as released by AD Scientific, a notable ranking system of World Universities, for Nigerian universities with topmost scientists that bring such great honours to those universities, Oduduwa University emerged 37th, with Professor Benjamin Segun Aribisala, who is also the current Vice-Chancellor of the institution. AD Scientific also ranked Oduduwa University as the 221st in Africa and 5413th in the world for the year. These rankings were based on the academic scholarship, number and quality, together with the impact of academic publications of scientists all over the world. Also, the commission, in a letter dated April 14, 2022, and signed on behalf of its Executive Secretary by the Director of Accreditation, Dr. Maryam Sali, listed the programmes accredited in LAUTECH as including Fine and Applied Arts, Agricultural Engineering, Chemical Engineering as well as Pure and Applied Physics and Statistics. The letter explained that the accreditations granted to the programmes, which are not new, are consequent upon the accreditation exercise carried out in LAUTECH between October and November, 2021.             Akindele redeems N15m pledge to Caleb’s best graduates     Rotary to pupils: imbibe our Four-Way Test tenet     107 Oko Poly workers undergo ICT training   Winners emerge in Rotary essay contest   FIVE winners have emerged in the semi-final of the Essay Competition organised by the Rotary International District 9110. They are Tajudeen Fatimah of Saddiyah Model Schools, Alagbole-Akute; Emmanuel Babatunde of Biyem International Group of Schools; Glory Olaniyo Adolphus of Hearstart Private School; Ifiok Idara Israel of Command Day Secondary School, Ojo and Jesutofunmi Bhadmus of Isolo Senior High School – all of Lagos. They won after a keenly contested presentation that involved 21 pupils from 12 schools, who were screened by the clubs in the district. Rotary International District 9110 (Four Way Test) Essay Competition Committee Chairman Adeniyi Otuniyi expressed satisfaction with the event and presentations by the pupils. He said the contest had not only helped to hone the skills of the pupils in writing and presentation, but also enable them to imbibe the tents of the Four Way Test of Rotary to enable them become better citizens. “The essay has helped you to learn one or two things about Rotary, a non-profit organisation, which serves humanity. One of the pillars of Rotary is vocational service where the Four Way Test is learnt and practised. Rotary takes service serious. That is why we embarked on this programme: to drive the youth towards being better citizens. Indeed, to catch them young,’’ he added. He said the five winners of the yearly event would still go for the finals where only three would eventually be picked. He assured that the winning essays would be published in the Rotary International District magazine to give the winners more publicity. He thanked the schools that participated as well as the clubs that sponsored the pupils. They were Rotary Clubs of Akute, Isolo, Lagos West, Ikoyi Metro, and Gbagada. Earlier, a Screening panelist /past president, Rotary Club of Akowonjo, Bisi Taiwo, confirmed that 21 essays were submitted. She said their scoring was done follows: writing (60 per cent) and presentation (40 per cent). Another panelist/past president, Kunle Aliyu, advised the pupils to keep to the topic and time, be audible and composed to succeed. Rotary International District (9110) Governor-Elect Omotunde Lawson also praised the pupils for a good job.