As divergent views trailed the total ban of commercial motor cycles in six local government areas and nine Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) in Lagos, experts say the statewide ban being envisaged should presage the take-off of the state’s transport policy, writes ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE writes Seven days. That is all that remains for any recalcitrant motor cyclists to look for another lucrative area to ply his trade, following the total ban of their operation in six local governments and nine local council development area in Lagos State. Rising from a state security council meeting last week, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu did what was to most people “most unthinkable”, a total ban on okada operations in six local governments and the nine LCDAs in these councils. Not unexpected though, because in September 2019, riding of the perceived excesses of these operators, Sanwo-Olu at a ceremony marking his 100 days in office, had announced a partial ban on same local governments and LCDAs from which the new directive totally banned their operations. The order was, however, put in abeyance due by the advent of COVID-19 and its attendant devastating consequences. However, the mindless murder of 37-year-old David Imoh, a sound engineer, in the Lekki area of Lagos triggered the government’s resolve to stamp out cyclists in the state. These local government areas are Ikeja, Eti-Osa, Lagos Island, Surulere, Apapa and Lagos Island, while the LCDAs carved out from these councils from which operating motor cyclists are forbidden are Onigbongbo, Ojodu, Ikoyi-Obalende, and Iru-Victoria Island. Others are Lagos Island East, Itire-Ikate, Coker-Aguda, Iganmu and Yaba. Like before, the ban foreclosed the reopening of the e-hailing operations by some corporate bodies which had invested massively in the comercial motor cycle sub-sector providing commuting service to stressed out commuters, clarifications from the Commissioner of Police Mr Abiodun Alabi and Commissioner of Information and Strategy Mr Gbenga Omotoso said the ban does not include power bikes and those in the cargo business. Alabi was to add that when the directive fully comes on stream, both the rider and passenger, caught on any of the prohibited routes would be prosecuted.   Not totally new   The ban and re-ban dance of the government is not totally new. In fact, such was the shock when total ban was announced last week that cross section of residents feel its time government should stop playing yoo-yoo with policies of the state on very sensitive sectors like transportation. The onslaught on okada operation started with the Babatunde Fashola administration, when he stopped the practice of distributing okada as empowerment tools by state actors (either the executive or legislative), to their unemployed youth constituents. He was to follow this with putting a stop to distributing helmets to riders and mandating its compulsory adornment by riders and their passengers in the state. When the okada operators counsel, the late Bamidele Aturu, sued the government for what they termed “unlawful act”, the government came with the Lagos State Transport Sector Reform Law, which came into effect on August 22, 2012, and which was amended six years later, under which okada operations were prohibited in some local governments, highways, bridges, and virtually on the BRT lanes. Though Fashola went all out to enforce the law against the common will, the little successes of the administration by his successor, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, to follow through, paved way for the massive proliferation, because though the okada operators were still being arrested and their bikes impounded, same sooner than later still found their ways back into the system by corrupt elements, who make a mine of the loopholes in the policy. What staggers imagination of many is that a decade after the Lagos State Traffic Law came into effect, the government still battles to stamp them out and the okada operators have operated as outlaws. Security operatives will argue that a major error was in the partial ban. They argued that a full ban on all roads is easier to enforce that the partial ban. Thus with the latest ban, enforcement is expected on all major and inner city roads in all the 15 councils listed in the schedule. But are residents enjoying the frustration of fruitless enforcement of its law on okada by the government? Jide Adeyemo, a resident, believes regardless of the vicious impact of COVID-19, the state has continued to show lack of capacity or willingness to enforce its laws. According to him, if it took 10 years to skirt round the same issue, anyone believing that this ban would be effective or the ban will soon be statewide in a phased enforcement is living in delusion?   Stakeholders condemn attacks on traffic officials     GIGM gets new CEO, expands operations     ‘Threats’ to rail infrastructure?   He quipped that many like him, have been forced to accept the reality of the okada operators, despite their known menace. “Since the government has been going back and forth on the full implementation of its law, I have come to accept the existence of okada as a necessary component on the road and have been living with it. I no longer bother whether they will stamp them out today, soon, or never, since the government never got round to doing anything anyway,” Adeyemo whose office is in a choice part of Ikeja said. For Adeyemo and others like him, the okada operator are in a republic of their own and have become such a force that upon the latest ban pronouncement, a section of the Hausa community had urged a rethink by government pledging to shock the government with “massive vote in the coming 2023 poll.” But should a mega city like Lagos habour an okada operation? Many transportation planners in the state have continued to argue that okada is in no way acceptable as a means of transportation. They held that regardless of the argument that the okada operators proliferate as a result of bad roads, traffic congestion, growing demands of urbanisation and megacity pressures, the two-wheel transportation mode is not needed on Lagos roads. These are compounded by the growing level of insecurity and the tendency for criminalities by operators. Within the logistics and transportation community, it is common knowledge that they proliferates and are still tolerated. They wondered that 55 years after its creation, Lagos, despite its megacity status as the government’s overarching ambition to turn it into a smart, 24-hour city, the state has refused to berth a transportation policy/master plan.   Justifications   Is there any reason  the government must ban cyclists in the state? The government even as at 2019 had inundated residents with statistics that made banning cyclists inexcusable. At the Igbobi Orthopedic Hospital, a ward, prior to 2012, was dedicated to cyclists accident victims. Same goes for the government hospitals as well as private and trado-medical facilities which are usually crammed. The Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) statistics as at 2012, showed that no fewer than 107 persons died of okada accidents every day, while 512 persons sustained various injuries. According to the statistics, 442 okada accidents were recorded daily in the state in 2012 alone. These figures LASTMA stated must have undoubtedly quadrupled. The then Lagos State Police Commissioner, Umaru Manko, accused commercial bike operators of robbery. For him, it was either they were the criminals or they colluded with criminals for quick get-away. The police had profiled cyclists as the single most dangerous phenomenon in the state then. Security reports showed that most cases of mugging and burgling are carried out with okada. The profiling many would argue remained so, a decade after. Secretary of the Lagos State Parks and Garages Management Agency (LSPGMA) and a past Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Transportation Dr Taiwo Salaam, said the state had no record of okada, as a form of transportation business until the dawn of the Fourth Republic. He argued that the operators must be muzzled by the force of law and replaced by public buses. However, a school of thought argued that until the government fully roll out its public transportation alternative, it must continue to accommodate okada operators in a “phased enforcement”. They argued that continued degeneration of basic infrastructure especially roads have seen continued to make the case for okada operation compelling as it has become saving grace for many residents in times of utmost emergency, not minding the tendency of many to be the harbinger of evil. Same 2012, the state roiled in shock when a truck load of 135 youths and 45 okada was arrested by the Police at Agege. The truck from Jigawa, had brought the men into Lagos to “eke out a living on okada business”. Residents and even government attested that the number of illegal migrants into Lagos have been on the rise. Statistics showed 200 migrants come into Lagos daily, many of who end up on the road, as either fruit mongers, okada riders, security guards and maids among others. Former Dean of the Lagos State University School of Transportation (LASU-SOT) Prof Samuel Odewunmi posting on his Facebook Timeline urged residents to support the government and stop patronizing okada operators in all the local governments where their operations had been banned. “If demand begins to shrink, supply will reduce and finally dry up,” he urged, adding that transportation planning would continue to fail until the people queue behind the government.   Better options coming Commissioner for Transportation Dr Frederic Oladeinde said: “Government adopted the phased ban in order not to cause major upheavals in the transport pattern of the people. The First and the Last Mile buses have been deployed on all the councils listed out for the pilot enforcement and as government deploys more of these alternatives, in rail, buses and water vessels, the more we will extend the phases to cover until the whole state is covered.”