Three persons died while two others were injured when the roof of an open market stall in a market in Ebonyi caved in on Friday evening. The incident happened at Ekeaja market square, Uburu, Ohaozara Local Government Area. Governor David Umahi confirmed the incident in a statement on Saturday. The governor was quoted by the statement issued by his Media Aide, Nwaze Francis as expressing shock at the incident “The Governor of Ebonyi State, David Nweze Umahi, has received with rude shock the disturbing and unfortunate news of the toppling of a part of the roof of one of the shades at the Ekeaja Market, Uburu which resulted in the loss of about three lives while two others were hospitalised,” the statement said. Governor Umahi who described the occurrence as catastrophic sympathised with the families of the three persons who lost their lives. The statement also noted that the governor has also reached out to others who sustained various degrees of injury during the incident.   Deeper Life high school saga: parties settle out of court     Accord Party guber aspirant promises to rebuild Abia in four…     Delta 2023: Urhobo media group sue for peace among guber…   “We have received the news of the unfortunate incident of the toppling of a part of one of the shades at Ekeaja market and the death of three persons in the incident with rude shock. “As mortals, we cannot question God but we pray fervently for God Almighty to grant the victims rest in his bosom and comfort their families,” Umahi said. “We however pray that God Almighty grants the hospitalized survivors quick recovery and reintegration with their families.” Governor Umahi, however, directed the police and other relevant agencies to immediately launch a full-scale investigation to unearth the immediate and remote causes of the incident. “I, therefore, implore our security agencies to work with the engineers at the Ministry of Works and the contractor of the project to immediately mobilise for a thorough investigation into this unfortunate incident to discover the causes of the ugly occurrence as a way of averting reoccurrence,” he added. It was gathered that the victims ran into the shade to wait out a heavy downpour in the area. The strong winds that accompanied the heavy rain was said to have blown away part of the building which fell on them. One of the victims is said to be a fourteen years old girl who died on the spot while others were rushed to hospital where two others were later confirmed dead.