The former Director-General of the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) Prof. Tonnie Iredia has called on media owners to seek self-regulation and special constitutional backing to guard journalists on duty. He stated this in Abuja at the commemoration of the World Press Freedom Day with the theme: “Journalism under Digital Siege.” He also urged media proprietors to seek professional protection for journalists. Iredia, who presented a paper on “What Journalists and Media in Nigeria Need to Do to Keep Safe, Retain Credibility and be Sustainable, said no one can regulate a platform more than the people who own it. Credibility, he said, can best be attained by a profession which develops its members to embrace best practices and global realities in their operations. According to him, the public expects the media to use its power to set the national agenda, monitor society and serve as gatekeepers. He said: “Professional excellence is premised on strict adherence to the ethical values of a profession.   Group donates governorship nomination forms to aspirant     Emir of Biu ‘endorses’ lawmaker’s re-election bid     Idoma poised to produce Benue governor next year   “The public naturally accords ample respect to operatives who are known for adding value to society.” On the use of social media, Iredia called on journalists not to use the platform the way other citizens do. He said there should be a difference between certified, trained journalists and citizens in terms of the use of social media. “Social is for everybody, we are all free to use it, we should not use it the way citizens are using it,” he added. ted to credible and independent journalism, media freedom, and the free flow of news and information. Also, the Force Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) called on journalists to clarify security issues before publishing stories to avoid crises. He said: “We are not enemies to the media, but open to collaboration at all times.”