I had always known that town (society) had infiltrated gown (university) in various ways. What I did not know was how much of the rot from the Nigerian society our universities had imbibed. Until last week, when I found out that Vice-Chancellors’ wives are also being treated like First Ladies in their respective universities just as Governors’ wives are known as First Ladies in their respective states. The discovery led me to examine various ways in which our university Vice-Chancellors have taken after the nation’s politicians. I do not take this comparison lightly, because I know both town and gown very well. I have spent over 50 years of my adult life within the university system. I have also been around politicians, attending meetings with them or advising them since my undergraduate days at the University of Ife in the 1960s. The group of politicians I worked with before I left the country in 1986 was markedly different from the group of politicians I encountered when I returned in 2012. Similarly, the crop of VCs I was familiar with in the 1960s through the 1980s is qualitatively different from the crop I encountered on my return. The earlier politicians and Vice Chancellors knew and upheld the sanctity of the office they held in trust for the people. Not so anymore. Today, more than ever before, the universities are firmly in the hands of politicians, who have other priorities than education. The appendage of the universities to the political system is rooted in their sponsorship by the state and the appointment of VCs and Pro-Chancellors by politicians—the President in the case of federal universities and the Governors in the case of state universities. With a few exceptions, these are the godfathers and their social network that applicants for these positions lobby for their appointments, just as today’s politicians lobby political godfathers and their social network for their selection or election. Over time, especially since 1999, Nigerian university VCs have imbibed and even normalised the corrupt practices and despised behaviours of politicians, forgetting that their key mission is to provide intellectual and administrative leadership to fellow academics and administrators. Like Governors, many Vice-Chancellors today ply the road in an escort with the accompaniment of police and siren. I did not encounter a VC who had a police or siren escort before I left the country in 1986. Like Governors, who micromanage everything in their states, Vice-Chancellors insert themselves into appointments, promotions, and even the selection of their successors, leading to serious crises on their campuses. Neither premier federal nor top-rated state universities are exempt from these problems. Of course, the problems would have been much less had they followed laid down rules, regulations, and procedures. Like politicians, they flout relevant rules and regulations with impunity. Besides, accusations of financial corruption against the VCs are rife on various campuses. Two such cases pricked the nation’s conscience in 2016, leading me to examine the cases (see Corruption in the ivory tower, The Punch, November 16, 2016). Like politicians, many current and former VCs are known today, whose children are educated abroad and who have built humongous houses and bought luxury vehicles, the like of which they never had before their appointment.   Africa’s Speakers seeking debt cancellation, says…     EU pledges to work with Nigeria to enhance security, growth     Fed Govt begins rehabilitation work on Lagos bridges   To be sure, the Committee of Vice Chancellors of Nigerian Universities (CVCNU) cannot be said to be an imitation of the Nigeria Governors Forum, because the former has been in existence for at least 60 years. Although it is another layer of bureaucracy, it has performed some useful role. As a matter of fact, a similar Committee has existed in Britain since 1930. What is new and undesirable about CVCNU is its acquiescence to the idea of a Committee of Vice Chancellors of Nigerian Universities Spouses (CVCNUS!). Since such a Committee does not exist in Britain, one can only look to the association of First Ladies of Nigerian Governors as inspiration. Investigations revealed that CVCNUS has been around for quite some time. It only came into the limelight because of the wrong timing of two related activities planned for May and July at a time when the Academic Staff Union of Universities is on strike, specifically over inadequate funding. The May event, scheduled to be held in Nigeria in May, was only a precursor of the real event scheduled for July in Turkey. The conference fee for the Turkey “international” conference is put at N1.5 million. The circulars announcing both events were on CVCNU’s letterhead and signed by its Secretary-General, Professor Yakubu Ochefu. The circulars did not go to individual spouses of the VCs but they were addressed directly to VCs. The lame excuse by the CVCNU’s authorities that they were targeting women in academics is nonsense. How many VCs spouses are in academics and how many of them actually work in the university? It was not only the coincidence with ASUU’s strike that many found irritating about the scheduled events for VCs’ wives. The events have been viewed as adult versions of the controversial Chrisland School’s children trip to Dubai in March to attend a purported World School Games, which eventuated into a sex orgy for some kids. Just as questions were raised about the games, for which there were no prior competitions to prepare the kids for a world event, questions have also been asked of the CVCNU, which appears to be championing the Turkey event, what exactly is meant by “leadership and management masterclass” and “fellowship induction”?  What is even worse, I did not find any such conference in Turkey, when I searched the July listings for conferences in Turkey, including International Conference Alerts, which lists international conferences by country and month of the year. The whole idea of a conference in Turkey may even have been a ruse. Whatever it is, resounding condemnation of the idea of a Committee of Vice-Chancellors of Nigerian Universities Spouses is all over the place, and they have come from outstanding scholars at home and abroad, from former Vice Chancellors, and even from a former Minister of Education. It is not enough to cancel the scheduled events, CVCNUS should be disbanded immediately and it should never be revived under any guise. Rather than deplete inadequate funds on sending VCs’ wives to an unnecessary, if not nonexistent, conference in Turkey, CVCNU should focus on raising standards, by joining ASUU in negotiating with government for adequate funds so that the universities they manage could resume the quadruple mission of teaching, learning, research, and service.