Prof Udenta Udenta, former National Secretary of Alliance for Democracy (AD), is the Ag Director-General and spokesman of the Senator Bala Mohammed Presidential Campaign Organization. He spoke with reporters in Abuja on preparations for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) primary. You are seen by many Nigerians as a strong proponent of Nigerian President of Southeast extraction. Why are you heading the Senator Bala Mohammed campaign organisation?  Thank you very much for this intriguing question. Yes, I can’t deny my advocacy of a Nigerian President of South East extraction, a tendency that is deeply rooted in my democratic struggles, particularly in 2010 when I authored the booklet “Rotation of Power and Igbo Possibility: Towards the 2015 Presidency Project”. That document and my various TV appearances and newspaper interviews provided the intellectual and strategic roadmap for the formation of the Igbo Political Forum as well as stimulating the conversations that led to the Four Northern Consensus arrangement in the PDP in the same 2010. However, the political landscape is much more different and nuanced now. For a start, since 1999, three geopolitical zones- the South West, South South and North West -have produced Nigerian Presidents meaning that a neat division into North and South rotation of power is now obtuse and untenable unless we want to inaugurate and sustain emergent sub- zonal political hegemonies especially of the South West and North West. To this extent the loud, booming call for power shift to the South is ahistorical and misdirected as it could lead to a new South West presidency that adds up to it’s sixteen years presidential and Vice presidential benefits. The same would be said of the South South. To this extent an incoherent, amorphous and indeterminate call for a Southern power shift is dubious, fraudulent and duplicitous unless and until such a call is fully and totally narrowed to the South East in the same way that a national affirmative political action led to three political parties fielding two South West presidential candidates in 1999 not because they earned those slots but because the nation’s political and military elite willed it so. I made my views clearly known in a series of TV interviews as early as February – a construct that is now resonating powerfully. I stated forcefully that unless the political – not cultural elite-reach the same conclusion that the presidency should rotate to the South East I will settle for a progressive political player from the North East- another depressed   geopolitical zone in terms of attainment of presidential power. I, moreover, elected to work with Sen Bala Mohammed because of his overarching Pan national ideals  and inclusive political, governance and leadership credentials as attested to by his moving the Doctrine of Necessity motion and his stint as the minister of the Federal Capital Territory. The PDP decision on zoning bears out my stand and I can safely aver that the APC will not zone the presidency to the South East. Period. Let me further reiterate that zoning between North and South as of today is a false binary because the domains of differences and the tensions and contestations around the issues of culture, geography and demography noted in the North are also prevalent in the South. Southward bound zoning calculus seeks to conceal and deflect these contested identity issues in a manner that is unjust, inequitable and repressive. For me the choice is very simple. I will not play any part in foisting on the South a South West hegemony in the name of Southern solidarity; I will rather work for and with a leader-Sen Bala Mohammed- who has an inclusive vision of government captured in his Nigeria First governance document and who will not only mainstream the South East into the commanding heights of governance apparatus and shorten the space and time the zone can attain the presidency than privilege a South West or South South unbridled quest for the presidency that will push into an indeterminate future time the prospects of its realization.  Let’s look at the controversy that surrounded the Northern Consensus arrangement that threw Sen Bala Mohammed and Sen Bukola Saraki as winners, why was the outcome of that process mired in controversy? Sen Bala Mohammed is fully appreciative of that deep sense of recognition which the consensus victory accorded him but he has moved beyond that situation. He is fully now focused on connecting with the delegates, engaging them on the broad and specific issues contained in his Nigeria First governance vision, and in winning the primary election decisively. We have observed that Sen Bala Mohammed has been touring the country canvassing for support among the delegates. How has that experience been? Are the delegates connecting to  his message given the crowded primary field?  Extraordinary is the word that readily comes to my mind in describing the passion that Sen Bala Mohammed generates in state after state. Amazing is another word. You need to be on ground zero to watch Sen Bala Mohammed speak from the heart- no thrills, no frills, no constructed persona, no duplicitous and politically correct behavior. He opens his heart to the delegates and they quickly detect his genuine humility, candour, passion for the people’s well-being, love of country and ready compassion. While some aspirants appear over packaged, over made up, over decorated Sen Bala Mohammed has consistently remained Sen Bala Mohammed, no more no less. I can state without any fear of contradiction that in terms of high, well channeled energy, clarity and boldness of vision and courage in engaging with even taboo topics no other aspirant comes even close in matching him in this regard. What Sen Bala Mohammed is leading is not a campaign organization; what he is leading is a groundbreaking national political movement that cuts across party, regional and geographic fault lines. Before our very eyes a quiet revolution is breaking out in the way political and national discourses are being shaped in a refreshingly original manner undergirded by Sen Bala Mohammed’s forceful energy and unquenchable passion for service. I will wager a bet that if the delegates are going to settle for an aspirant who understands their pains and worries, who is committed in helping the nation realize its immense possibilities, and who will see the rescue and rebuild mantra not as a meaningless platitude but a roadmap to national renovation then without a shadow of a doubt Sen Bala Mohammed wil be the candidate of the PDP in the 2023 presidential election. You keep talking about Sen Bala Mohammed’s Nigeria First Agenda, what is it all about?   ‘APC needs credible primary to retain power’     Oloyede’s Double Wreath of Honour     Makinde presents vehicles to judges   Thank you for this question. The Nigeria First Agenda is Sen Bala Mohammed’s unique Contract with Nigeria, and which has not only been launched but is being shared to all party delegates to the National Convention. It has already been well received by such platforms as the Forum of Former Ministers, NWC, BOT, Senate and House of Reps Caucuses, state party chairmen, Forum of Speakers of state houses of assembly and Ex officio members. The key components of that document pertain to using an inclusive and knowledge based and knowledge driven governance model to turn around the fortunes of the nation in the areas of national healing through binding the wounds of division; retooling the nation’s security architecture for a better outcome against terrorism, banditry, and rural and urban criminalities; retrieving the nation from the clutches of perdition to which the current APC government has plunged it; rebuilding the economy; empowering women and youth; poverty reduction; placing high premium on education; and running an inclusive government that responds to the diversities of the nation. In his meetings with delegates Sen Bala Mohammed spends time explaining to them how he will leverage on his accumulated experiences as a journalist, a civil servant, a Senator, Minister and now Governor to unlock the ways and means of reducing waste, plugging loopholes, promoting efficiency and tackling some of the knotty and heavily contested hot button issues like restructuring, state and community policing, and revolution of power from the centre to the sub national levels. How do you think the PDP primary election will play out?  This is the sixth presidential campaign in which I am playing a prominent role so I can say without equivocation that I am deeply knowledgeable about such matters. Yes, politics will always surprise you but if you are adept in scenario building, measuring political trends and dynamics and underscoring the contours of political behavior, and you are also a betting man or woman, you can safely say that majority of PDP delegates will bet on Sen Bala Mohammed. They will bet on him on the parameters that they want a genuine leader who calls it as it is, who says what he means and means what he says, and who has the passion, energy and courage to keep fighting till victory is secured as he did in 2007 and 2019, in spite of all odds. Let me also add that political choices are a deep game between the heart and the head. I believe that the heads of the delegates will rule their  hearts and when that happens Sen Bala Mohammed will emerge as the flag bearer of the PDP for the 2023 presidential election.  In such a crowded field of aspirants what makes Sen Bala Mohammed stand out from the pack? Indeed, what are his unique selling points? Sen Bala Mohammed’s sense of humility is infectious. He is the first to declare, in state after state, and before party delegates and other critical stakeholders, that while he may not be be the best in the field that he is one of the best. So for him the quest for the presidency is not couched in an insular narrow minded frame undergirded by a messianic complex or a neo- shamanist epiphany. It is about service and a national labour of love. Again, Sen Bala Mohammed’s inclusive democratic practice is constructed as a collective act of national redemption in which the public good is what matters most. This is why he declares without hesitation that even though he expects to win the primary election handsomely that in the event the delegates choose another person to carry the party’s flag he will endorse and support the candidate and work tirelessly for his success. It’s also important to emphasize that Sen Bala Mohammed is a modernizing bridge builder who believes in the place of knowledge as a driver of national development and social transformation. In his Nigeria First policy document the space that a knowledge driven economy determined by technical skills and competencies occupies is strategic and impactful. Above all, Sen Bala Mohammed is a through bred party activist and loyalist. He believes in the party, in building up its organizational infrastructure, in strengthening its leadership ranks, and in empowering its core cadres. This singular respect for party leaders found resonance when he was the minister of the FCT and in the way and manner he has been contributing in nurturing and sustaining the party in many states of the federation without noise or fanfare. Nigeria is passing through a difficult phase in her life given the level of insecurity and violent conflicts that are steadily eroding public trust in government and confidence in the Nigerian project. How does Sen Bala Mohammed intend to solve this multiform security challenges? This is a matter that Sen Bala Mohammed has given deep thought to and a sphere that is crucial to national development and social stability. As the minister of the FCT he deployed resources towards a multitrack peace building and conflict reduction programme that leveraged on best practices in such areas as constant and sustainable community engagement, using network of youth groups as the engine room of intelligence gathering and local level strategic communication networks with regard to early warning signals and early response mechanisms. No wonder his tenure as minister was relatively peaceful with adequate protection of lives and property. As governor of Bauchi state he has continued in the same trajectory of sustained community engagement and shared responsibilities that have today seen the state as the most peaceful in the whole of the North East. On the broader national space Sen Bala Mohammed is justifiably- like millions of fellow citizens- outraged by the failure of the APC government to secure the land, reduce the spate of insecurity and end the reign of terrorists, bandits, Unknown gunmen, ritualists and other forms of urban and rural criminalities ravaging the land. He believes that as ungoverned spaces widen it appears as if the state and its coercive apparatuses are retreating, helpless and hapless. Sen Bala Mohammed commends the courage and sacrifice of the men and women of our security and defence forces who are battling against incredible odds to keep us safe, and stresses that as Nigeria’s president he will provide them all the equipment and resources they need to keep us safe. But beyond that he believes that the nation’s peace and security architecture needs to be overhauled even as there is in urgent need to mainstream security platforms at the sub national levels into the national peace and security strategy in the form of community policing and other forms of community based crime detection and prevention outfits. Because of his firm belief in a knowledge based system that will generate knowledge based solutions to the nation’s security crises Sen Bala Mohammed believes in the need to reinvigorate the Nigerian strategic conflict assessment project by emphasizing the place of conflict indicators, early warning and early response communication hub as well as state and non state actors interface in the process of managing the nation’s diverse security challenges. I have traversed the whole of the country with him in the course of his conversations with party delegates and these are the themes that resonate in his remarks state after state.