Celebrity stylist Toyin Lawani of Tiannahplacempire has lamented the practice of age reduction by many celebrities. She alleged an actress, who is guilty of the act, reduced her age by 10years. The topic of age reduction suddenly began to trend on social media after a supposed school mate of ex-BBNaija housemate, Maria Benjamin called her out a few days ago for claiming to be 30 on May 3. The social media user argued Maria couldn’t be 30 in few days because she was three classes ahead of her in secondary school while she is already over 30. Others also joined in to chide Maria noted she adopted “football age” though some persons supported Maria as they said she could claim whatever age she deemed fit because it is no one’s business. Reacting to the topic of age reduction aka ‘football age’ by many especially celebrities, the fashion guru wondered why people engaged in the practice. According to Lawani, when kids are younger they claim to be older and when they eventually become older, they begin to reduce their age as though they were scared of getting older.   Five Nigerian celebrities with different baby mamas     ‘Be ready for payback if you cheat on your wife’     I will open OnlyFans page to shake enhanced bum bum -Tonto…   The mother of three, who clocked 40 in March, further blamed society for encouraging the practice because many engage in ‘age-shaming’ others. She wrote: “Please I want to ask a special question? Why do people feel they need to lie about their age? When kids are younger like 13 they want to claim they are 18, when they get older they want to claim younger. “This rubbish is now very rampant, is it for acceptance or what cause I don’t understand. I know one Aunty that is 46 but she is still celebrating 36. I asked her why, she said that was the age nollywood gave her and she accepted it. “Like seriously y’all also need to relax, always quick to call people old and make them feel otherwise. See it’s something graceful to get old , nobody will pray not to get old na Abi, if you like paro di thy kingdom come, the time God ordained for you will still be the time. “Easy people on the acceptance. It’s quite irritating with the lies and it’s also irritating on how you people Age shame people in the society.’ She added: “I am speaking my mind not targeting anyone. The drama is too much about this age thing.”