Malaria vaccine offers life-changing prospects for African children.  But where were African governments and scientists in the breakthrough? It is refreshing to hear an African voice boom, in triumph, at the prospect of the wide deployment of the RTS,S malaria vaccine in malaria-endemic Africa. “As a malaria researcher in my early career, I dreamed of the day we would have an effective vaccine against this devastating disease,” Ethiopia’s Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO director-general crowed. “This vaccine is not just a scientific breakthrough, it’s life-changing for families across Africa.” “It demonstrates,” he insisted, “the power of science and innovation for health.  Even so, there is an urgent need to develop more and better tools to save lives and drive progress towards a malaria-free world.” The malaria vaccine, marketed as Mosquirix, has just completed successful pilot trials in three countries: Ghana, Kenya and Malawi.  The trials that started in April 2019, according to a WHO news bulletin, has been found to be “safe and feasible to deliver; and that it substantially reduces deadly severe malaria.” Indeed, the field pilot experience has been near-excellent, reporting a high level of vaccine penetration across those three countries: Ghana (71 per cent in 2020 to 76 per cent in 2021); Kenya (69 per cent in 2020 to 83 per cent in 2021); Malawi (88 per cent in 2020 to 93 per cent in 2021).  This trend shows a steady acceptance of Mosquirix, by African governments, as a pivotal part of their anti-malarial public health policy.  The pilots applied the vaccine to no less than one million African children. So, based on these pilots, the vaccine is set to be deployed to the quad of Nigeria, Uganda, Mozambique and Zambia.  The Nigerian government has written an official request.  Also, the Federal Government and the Prince Ned Nwoko Foundation for Malaria Eradication, a charitable NGO, have offered to buy the first batch of the vaccine for Nigeria. By payment terms, Gavi, the vaccine alliance, will pick 80 per cent of the bill while Nigeria and other beneficiary governments will pay the balance of 20 per cent.  To ease supply and minimise costs, GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), the manufacturers and patent owner of RTS,S would hand the patent to Bharat Biotech in India to mass produce, under a special arrangement. The malaria vaccine breakthrough is a function of 30 years of research and development by GSK, in a partnership with Programme for Appropriate Technology in Health (PATH): global entities rooted in United States/Europe, though supported by a network of African research centres. The pilot tests were collaboration among health ministries of Kenya, Ghana and Malawi, in-country evaluation partners, PATH and UNICEF.  Funding came from Gavi, the vaccine alliance, the Global Fund and Unitaid. Inasmuch as the vaccine breakthrough made pleasant news, the real news is that the vaccine may have opened an exciting season in other anti-malarial vaccines and allied treatment regimes.  That seems to reinforce the WHO director-general’s call for “an urgent need to develop more and better tools to save lives and drive progress towards a malaria-free world.” Indeed, it’s a busy turf.  In the works are R21/Matrix-M and other malaria vaccines undergoing clinical tests.  BioNTech, manufacturer of the Pfzer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine, is also developing a malaria vaccine using the mRNA technology.   Result of diligence     Arthur Nzeribe (1938 – 2022)     Frequent grid collapse   Aside, there are a rash of new tools and technologies in vector control, to eliminate malaria-bearing Anopheles mosquitos: insecticide-treated nets, spatial mosquito repellents, gene-drive approaches and sugar baits to lure and kill malaria vectors. On the treatment front, there are some exciting and promising drugs.  The Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration boasts Tafenoquine, a single dose drug to prevent P. vivax, a strain of malaria among children.  The US Federal Drug Administration has approved its use in the United States.  So have Brazil, Peru and Thailand, in their territories. Aside Tafenoquine, there is Genaplacide-Lumefantrine, already in Phase 2 clinical trials, as non-artemisinin therapy that could rein in drug-resistant malaria in Africa.  This would appear a big deal because every year malaria kills more than 400, 000 Africans, most of them children. To introduce, procure and deliver Mosquirix to more “Gavi-eligible” sub-Sahara African countries, Gavi, the vaccine alliance, has secured US$ 155 million in funding.  Mass Mosquirix deployment could further save between 40, 000 and 80, 000 from the malaria plague. The vaccine’s demand is projected to rise from the present 15 million doses to 80 million doses in the medium term. Such could be a massive boost for public health.  Sound public health is good news for the economy, other things being equal. Still, funding worries remain.  By 2020, malaria research and development (R & D) tipped just over US$ 619 million.  But in the 10-year period from 2021 to 2030, it is projected to rise to US$ 851 million.  This is more so when the research trend is moving from a global one-shoe-fits-all to varied localised approaches to the malaria challenge. The worrisome thing though is that in funding, research and development of anti-malarial drugs and strategies, malaria-endemic Africa remains — proudly? — the backwater.  Proudly, because both African governments and African scientists appear comfy at parasitising on other governments and scientific thinkers, and even funding charities, to tackle their malaria challenge. True, the GSK RTS,S vaccine research spoke of a retinue of collaborating African research centres over the 30-year effort that birthed the vaccine.  Still, there is little to suggest that these centres were no more than mere end receptacles, taking directions from foreign bodies, which countries have far less malaria challenge, if any. The scandal for Africa — and glory for Australia — is that an Australian public health authority is midwifing Tafenoquine, while African public health jurisdictions appear just comfy to consume. There is no indication that Australia has more malaria challenge than Africa.  Yet, its government and scientists clearly give it more thoughts, invested their brains, time and money, and therefore make economic capital out of the drug, aside from the pleasing feeling of saving global children from malaria. Africa must do better in turning its challenges into assets.  Malaria has been a long-standing challenge.  COVID-19 is another.  On both, Africa has been found wanting.  It’s time, therefore, to change tack — and malaria research, at this juncture, offers the chance for Africa to solve a basic African problem.  Nigeria must take a definite lead in this malaria challenge.