The President, Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors (NIQS), Mr Olayemi Shonubi, has the raised alarm over the corruption in the execution of constituency projects. Shonubi, during the Quarterly Interactive Forum organised by Property and Environment Writers’ Association of Nigeria (PEWAN) in Lagos, called for specific Ministry, Department and Agencies (MDAs) that would track and warehouse constituency projects to curb leakages. He said many public procurement for constituency projects were marred with corruption and irregularities. He said several constituency projects awarded were made to look like conduit, where funds were being siphoned because  they were either non- existent or sited far from where they were financed. “There should be a specific MDA where these projects should be warehoused, that is the way we can get value,” he added. He said reports from the project tracking organised by the ICPC, in conjunction with NIQS and some CSOs, showed that “our public-funded projects are still enmeshed in corruption”. “In a situation where MDAs undertake projects outside their areas of operation leaves room for a lot of underhand deals aside from further increasing the administrative costs of running such projects.   Evercare Hospital gets environmental-friendly building     LSDPC donates cash to retiree     Ladipo Auto Market seeks LAWMA’s assistance   “The private sectors’ situation, where no law binds the award and execution of contracts other than the basic corporate governance code, is more abysmal. “However, because the spotlight is usually on the public sector, the tendency is to believe that corruption exist only in the public sector. “There is the need for procurements for constituency projects to be warehoused under a specific MDA for effective monitoring and supervision,” he added. He lamented the low engagement of quantity surveyors in government and projects, adding that quantity surveyors helped to curb wastage, reduce cost of projects and eliminate corruption. He  decried the trend in the built environment, where engineers had hijacked the roles of quantity surveyors, thereby creating a vacuum in accurate quantities delivering. Shonubi explained that it was only in Nigeria that the Bill of Engineering Measurement Evaluation was used in contract awards instead of Bill of Quantity, which only quantity surveyors could use to bring down the cost of projects. He said the trend was difficult to correct because “once you have something that has become a norm it takes time to change”.