Industrial and Medical Gas (IMG) Nigeria Plc has posted a net profit of N372 million in its 2021 financial year as against N292 million in 2020, an increase of 27 per cent, despite the inclement operating environment. Besides, the company’s directors are proposing one bonus of ordinary share for every five ordinary shares held by shareholders, whose names appear in the company’s register of members at the close of business on Friday, June 10, 2022. A regulatory filing yesterday indicated that the proposed bonus shares underlined the company’s strategic decision to reinvest its profit to build a stronger financial base in the nearest future, shall increase the shareholders’ outstanding shares and boost liquidity of the company’s stock on the Nigerian Exchange (NGX).   Heifer votes $3.5m for tractors     Customs Strike Force rakes in N8b in two months     Nigeria, others need $106b finance for agric   Approval of the bonus shares is one of the major items on the agenda for IMG’s hybrid annual general meeting (AGM), scheduled for Friday, June 24, 2022.  In  the review period, IMG’s total revenue was up by 16.4 per cent to hit N3.69 billion in 2021 from N3.17 billion in the preceding year while its total assets inched up. IMG’s Chairman,  Mr Abiodun Alabi, shall review the global  economic outlook, the  economy, emerging success stories of divestment of Linde Group and acquisition of 60 per cent holding in the company by T.Y. Holdings, which  increased the Holding’s stake to 72 per cent and the change of  the company’s name from BOC Gases to IMG as part of its brand positioning. Alabi shall also review the industrial gas market and unfold IMG’s major performance indicators to the shareholders. He will formally introduce the four new Directors that have joined the Company’s Board from diverse professional background and robust industry experience.  On the list of other vital issues at the meeting are corporate social responsibility, updates on the activities of the customers, distributors,  suppliers and agents, safety and environment and the future of IMG as a major player in the gas industry.