Violence marred the House of Representatives primary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) held across Ondo State. The violence made the party change the venue in many constituencies. There was heavy shooting at the Ade Supa hotel, venue of the Akure Federal Constituency where incumbent lawmaker, Alade Mayorkun, lost to Derin Adesida. Mayorkun was elected to the House of Representatives in March this year in a by-election following the death of Hon Omolafe Adedayo. He got 38 votes while Adesida scored 68 votes. Some thugs statiiond outside the venue, however, attempted to disrupt the process to stop announcement of the results. The thugs forcefully gained entrance into the hall and pounced on security operatives after which they snatched the ballot box from the agents. Some delegates were beaten by the thugs for voting against their preferred aspirant. Delegates and journalists scampered for safety while the security personnel drove the thugs away.   Okorocha to EFCC: drop charges against me     Two Ekiti Rep members secure tickets as one loses return bid     BREAKING: INEC extends deadline for primaries by six days   Adesida was subsequently declared winner by the returning officer, Adeyemi Akola. Results of the Ifedore/Idanre Federal Constituency was not announced as tension enveloped venue of the election in Igbara-Oke, Ifedore local government area. The main contestants were Speaker Bamidele Oleyelogun, and Hon Tajudeen Adefisoye. It was remaining 15 votes when crisis erupted as Speaker Oleyelogun raised the alarm over alleged threat to his life. The crisis escalated when a delegate was accused of snapping her ballot paper and it resulted to clash between supporters of Oloyelegun and Hon Adefisoye. After several hours of stalemate, the election was put on hold. The lawmaker representing Derin Adesida, Timehin Adelegbe defeated Dr. Abiola Oshodi with 101 votes to 9 votes. In Ondo West/East Federal Constituency, Hon. Abiola Makinde won with 96 votes. Elections were yet to be concluded in many other constituencies.