The Electoral Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Taraba has suspended indefinitely all the primary elections following disagreement among aspirants on the mode to adopt and the subsequent alleged shooting of one of the committee members. Briefing newsmen at the Taraba Police Headquarters Jalingo, chairman of the Electoral Committee, Lawrence Onuchukwu, said apart from shooting one of his members, the committee had confronted several other issues which must be sorted out before the election would be conducted. “As you can see, I am not in a good state of mind. I came all the way from the National Headquarters of the party to perform this all important function to the best of my ability but it is quite unfortunate that the stakeholders and the aspirants had failed to agree on one position as to which mode we should use in conducting this election. “We therefore, bring the election to a hold. I am seriously saddened because I as am speaking to you, one of my members was shot at Kpanti- Napu, a village in Yorro Local Government Area of Taraba State. He is now excruciating in pains at the hospital. I must tell you that I am not in the right frame of mind,” he stated briskly and left the press. The chairman said he did not approve any election to be conducted anywhere in the State, stressing those allegedly done remain null and void.   Sen Otu wins APC guber primary in Cross River     CUPP spokesman picks PDP Reps ticket     And God decided to show up, by Femi Adesina   When contacted, Taraba Commissioner of Police CP Abimbola Shokoya, confirmed the attack on the Electoral Committee Member. He however said the member in question was not shot but was only hit on the head by some yet-to-be identified youths who left him with serious injury on the head. “Yes the Taraba State Police Command is investigating a case of one Barrister Romeo Braima who was attacked at Kpanti – Napu, a village in Yorro Local Government Area of Taraba State Thursday evening. “The lawyer was actually hit on the head. He was not shot as people are alleging. Though he sustained serious injury on the head. The attackers were asking him to provide the result sheets of the primary elections slated to be conducted Thursday in the state. “We are however, on top of the matter. Presently he is receiving treatment in a hospital in Jalingo. We are monitoring the treatment and we believe he will recuperate soon,” h explained. As of the time of compiling this report, some irate youth suspected to be loyal to some of the governorship aspirants on the platform stormed the Police Headquarters demanding the chairman of the electoral committee must produce the originals of the result sheets. One of the youths who identified himself as Bala Abdulhazee from Wukari, alleged the committee was compromised by conniving with some of the aspirants to rig the elections, stating they no longer have confidence in them.