Gunmen have killed a former Commissioner of the National Population Commission (NPC), Mr. Zakari Umaru-Kigbu in Nasarawa State and abducted two of his daughters. Our correspondent gathered that the incident occurred in the early hours of Sunday at Umar-Kigbu’s residence in Azuba Bashayi, Lafia Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. It was gathered that the kidnappers have demanded N50 million ransom for release of the victims. A family member told The Nation: “Mr. Umaru-Kigbu was killed by gunmen last night in his residence at Azuba Bashayi, Lafia Local Government Area of Nasarawa State and two of his daughters were also kidnapped.” The diseased, aged 60, was a retired Air Force officer. It was learnt until his murder, he was a lecturer at the Department of Mass Communication, lsa Mustapha Agwai Polytechnic, Lafia (IMAP) and former NPC Federal Commissioner covering Nasarawa State.   Port Harcourt stampede: Our story, by King’s Assembly     Adelabu rejects Oyo APC Gov primary, insists on contesting     ‘Enugu PDP Gov candidate Mbah not assassinated’   Our correspondent further gathered he was the agent of a governorship aspirant, Mr. Labaran Maku, who contested on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) but stepped down. Confirming the incident, Nasarawa Police spokesman ASP Ramhan Nansel, said the Command got a distress call around 12.20am on Sunday. He said investigation was ongoing to ascertain the circumstances surrounding the incident. Nansel also confirmed the gunmen kidnapped two of the diseased’s daughters. According to him: “We responded to the distressed call and immediately deployed our partrol teams of the Command and the military also drafted its men to the scene of the incident to support the Nigeria Police Force so as to rescue the two daughters of the diseased unhurt.” He said Umaru-Kigbu was rushed to Dalhatu Raf Specialist Hospital (DASH), Lafia, where died The PPRO said the Command was not aware of the N50 million ransom demand by the kidnappers.