Mixed reactions have trailed the exclusion of Nigerian graduates from a new United Kingdom visa – high potential individual visa. The United Kingdom stated that the new visa excluded Nigerian university graduates from applying for the scholarship based on the requirement that graduates applying must be from any of the universities in the top 50 global rankings. The new visa allows holders of first degrees, Masters and doctorates to travel to the country and work in fields such as science, technology, innovation and entrepreneurship by May 30. The visa also allows applicants to relocate to the UK without a prior job offer or sponsorship. But some of the requirements excluded those who graduated from Nigerian universities. The Nation learnt it costs £715 to secure the HPI visa and one does not need to secure a job in the UK or need to be sponsored by any employer. The individual must also have about £1,248 in one’s account for about 28 days and capacity for English proficiency. The UK government had said to qualify for the HPI visa, applicants needed to have been awarded a degree from an overseas university.   Petrol tanker falls, crushes girl in Rivers     Sanwo-Olu’s second term and MURIC’s Jaguda logic     Seven years after, UK recovers $23m Abacha loot   The university has to be one of the top global universities as published in the global universities list by the Home Office. It explained that that the list would be compiled annually and comprise institutions included in the list of the top 50 universities in at least two of the following ranking systems: Times Higher Education World University rankings, Quacquarelli Symonds World University rankings, and the Academic Ranking of the World Universities. But checks by The Nation show Nigerian universities do not appear in any of these global rankings. Reacting, many Nigerians took to social media to express their views over this latest development which is expected to commence May 30. Gregory Obiajulu Mumbor said: “All these discriminations are fueled by the chains of bad leadership that have plagued Nigeria over these years. lf Nigeria had a system that works and piloted by responsible leaders, Nigeria universities as at today will be highly. rated among the very best in the world.” Ben Okogun lamented: “Nigeria Universities are not list in the eligible schools. What a shame? What has Nigeria been doing in the last 62years? The schools are even on strike as we speak.” Mark Ushie stated: “The question: Is your university among the top 50 in the world? If yes, then apply; if not, then meet the 12 months criteria.” Adebukola Michael said: “Nigeria youths with the best brains but we are cursed with bad leadership. We have the best mineral resources and human resources but no human developments. No value added to our mineral resources. “That’s why we are running abroad for better education and a better life. Others see us as ordinary asylum seekers since they don’t invite us but we’ve been the ones trooping to their place as Nigeria is not supportive but oppressive.” Korfii Uebari said: “I am not worried about the UK. If they say Nigeria is not qualified to be on the list, it also affects them. The system they brought is what Nigeria uses. Perhaps, they brought the wrong system of education to Nigeria.”