Last week, two leading telecom service providers, MTN Nigeria and Airtel Nigeria, started their Payment Service Banks (PSBs). According to Enhancing Financial Innovation and Access (EFInA’s) 2020 report, while 45 per cent of adults have bank accounts, 36 per cent are still financially excluded. It is hoped the PSBs will bridge the gap in banking services, LUCAS AJANAKu reports. MTN’s Mobile Money (MoMo) payment service bank (PSB) has begun operations in Nigeria. The operator with the largest subscriber base notified shareholders of the development, saying the opening of the bank followed a successful pilot initiated on May 16. MTN said this is a key milestone in delivering the company’s Ambition 2025 strategic priorities, and the bank is poised to enable millions of unbanked and underserved Nigerians to access a wide range of financial service products. In addition, the company said, MoMo wallets in the future will enable Nigerians in the diaspora to send money to any phone number in the country, “an important feature given Nigeria’s ranking as the destination for the highest remittance inflow in sub-Saharan Africa”.   Airtel Africa, leading provider of telecommunications and mobile money services, with a presence in 14 countries across Africa, also announced that its subsidiary SmartCash Payment Service Bank Limited (SmartCash PSB), has commenced operations in Nigeria. MTN Group first announced its steps in the process towards final approval of the licence last November, saying this was subject to the fulfillment of certain conditions as stipulated by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). With the payment services bank licence, MTN Nigeria will offer a wider range of mobile financial services beyond the traditional person-to-person mobile money transfers, such as lending and bill payments. The commencement of bank operations is a positive step in the telco’s fintech drive and comes as the MTN Group is on track to spin-off its lucrative fintech business.   Awareness about security tech low, says Virdi     OPPO pushes to increase market share     Coin doctor named one of ‘100 most influential young…   The telco has set the second quarter of the 2022 financial year as the deadline to spin-off its financial services unit. CEO of MTN Nigeria, Karl Toriola, said: “We are grateful to the CBN for their support and guidance through the process. This is an important milestone for MTN Nigeria in our mission to support the government’s drive towards financial inclusion in Nigeria. Nor just for those in urban centres and markets, but also people in the rural and remote areas of the country who remain excluded from the financial system.” For MTN Nigeria, the MoMo bank will bolster its already flourishing fintech business, which is growing rapidly into its most rewarding market. Airtel said services will initially be available at selected retail touch points, and operations will be expanded gradually across the country over the next few months. Reacting to the development, Chief Executive Officer, Airtel Africa, Segun Ogunsanya, said: “I am very excited to announce our commencement of operations for financial services in Nigeria through SmartCash PSB. This is the beginning of our journey to revolutionise the financial services landscape in the country. To help further digitise the economy, and most importantly to help bank the unbanked by reaching the millions of Nigerians who do not currently have access to financial services by delivering current and savings accounts, payment and remittance services, debit and prepayment cards and more sophisticated services.”   In the current reporting for the first quarter of 2022, MTN Nigeria’s fintech revenue rose by 46.7per cent on the back of the growing adoption of fintech services and an expanded user base.   MTN’s MoMo agent network continued to widen, with more than 800 000 registered agents and over 166 000 active agents.   MoMo PSB CEO Usoro Usoro comments: “Providing easy to use, accessible and affordable financial services to all Nigerians is essential to executing the CBN’s financial inclusion strategy and the digital inclusion agenda of the minister of communications and digital economy.   “We look forward to playing our part and are excited about the opportunities to partner with relevant institutions across various sectors to co-create and expand access nationwide.”