All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirant Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has said that he noticed the consistency and honesty of the former Nasarawa Governor Senator Umaru Al-Makura during the merger that brought in APC into existence. He stated this weekend in Lafia while addressing Nasaraw delegates in support of his aspiration to fly the flag of the party during the convention slated for May 30. According to him: “I cannot forget one person, he was a lone ranger in one party call CPC and we pursue it, it was then I noticed the consistency, reliability and honesty of Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, the former Governor of Nasarawa State. “It is showing now that Al-Makura has something in common with me, hunting the talent, producing the talent and standing by that talent and that is why you have Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State today. “I must say, you people are extremely lucky, you are following the man who knows the way and that is my motto, follow me, I’m the only one who knows the way.”   Dagogo drags PDP, INEC to court over exclusion     NDLEA intercepts 24 parcels of cocaine at Port Harcourt…     Anambra House of Assembly expresses shock over member’s…   He commended Governor Sule on his sterling leadership which is bringing development to the State, adding he has accumulated knowledge and experience in the private sector before joining politics. Sule described the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu, as an individual who believes in justice, equity and fairness. According to the Governor, Bola Tinubu is a kingmaker that has made several kings while also saving the lives of people. He traced their relationship back to 2005 when Bola Tinubu started forming alliances in order to kick away the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from its stranglehold on national politics. “I will tell you that this kingmaker that you see, the kingmaker that is wanting to be king now, started about alliances and everything as early as when it became evident that we are beginning to have a monster called PDP around 2005,” he stated. Former Borno Governor and Director General of the Ahmed Bola Tinubu campaign organisation, Kashim Shettima, described Tinubu as a living legend. According to Shettima, Nigeria needs a leader like Tinubu who will unite the country, “a leader that panders to neither ethnic nor religious agenda and is not bound by any toxic regional solidarity.”