Last week, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Muhammed and other top officials of the Ministry of Transportation visited the Lekki Deep Seaport to examine the benefits of the multibillion-dollar investment to the economy. The minister said the port would generate revenue of $201 billion for the Federal and Lagos State governments through taxes, duties and royalties during the 50-year concession period.The port, he added, would create over 170, 000 jobs. “With Lekki Port scheduled to commence commercial operation in the last quarter of the year, it would make it possible for Nigeria to regain the maritime business that was lost to ports in Togo, Cote d’Ivoire and Ghana. “It is also a big boost to Nigeria in its quest to take advantage of the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA). “A major advantage we have to leverage is transshipment. With this port, Nigeria would become a transshipment hub and the revenue we are currently losing to our neighbouring countries will come here,” Lai Mohammed said. The facility is situated at the Lagos Free Trade Zone (LFZ), along the Lekki Corridor. The project that is over 85 per cent completed, is projected to be one of the most modern ports in West Africa, offering support to the commerce in Nigeria and the West African region. It is the largest seaport in Nigeria and one of the biggest in West Africa. The port has the capacity of handling about six million TEUs of containers and a significant volume of liquid and dry bulk uncontainerised cargoes. It will accommodate vessels with over 14,500 containers. Financed by private investors who have funded the project with over $1.5 billion, the port occupies 90 hectares. The Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise Limited (LPLEL) is a joint venture among the Investment Holdings Inc. (comprising China Harbour Engineering Company Limited (CHEC) and Singapore-based FMCG giant, Tolaram Group), the Lagos State Government and the Federal Government through the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA). Although CHEC owns the majority shares in the Lekki port project, the Chinese Development Bank (CDB) also signed a 45-year concessionary agreement with LPLTZ to complete Phase 1 of the project. The Lekki seaport will become the third in Lagos. Nigeria has six major seaports, namely, Lagos Port Complex, Tin Can Island Port (TCIP), Lagos State, Calabar Port (Cross Rivers State), Delta Port (Delta), Rivers Port (Rivers State), and Onne Port (Rivers State). Last year, Nigerian Port Authorities (NPA) reported that despite the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, its Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) grew significantly by 120 per cent between January 1 and last September. During a presentation to the government, the Managing Director of NPA, Mohammed Bello Koko, said the agency earned N256.28 billion ($619.62 million) in Internally Generated revenue by last September, exceeding an initial projection.   Result of diligence     Osun, Ekiti elections and the race to 2023     Making a mockery of democracy   When the port begins operation in the last quarter of this year, its promoters said it will make it possible for Nigeria to regain the maritime business that was lost to ports in Togo, Cote d’Ivoire and Ghana. It is also a big boost to Nigeria in its quest to take advantage of the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA). “A major advantage we have to leverage is transhipment. With this port, Nigeria will become a transhipment hub and the revenue we are currently losing to our neighbouring countries will come here. That’s big! “ Phase one of the project, it was learnt, has reached an 89 per cent completion rate, assuring that it will hit the 100 per cent mark in September this year. He further spoke on the various aspects of the project this way: “The facilities here are first class. We have seven ships to shore cranes and 21 RTG cranes. No port in Nigeria currency has this. The excellent equipment is why this port can do 18,000 teu, which is more than four times the number that can currently be handled by our other ports. The project is self-sufficient in required electricity. It is also ready to generate up to 10 Mega Watts and the total capacity is 16 megawatts. Stakeholders said they were concerned about the efficient evacuation of goods and services at the port as anybody and the government know that the ultimate would be to connect this port to rail for optimal use. The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi in a recent inspection of the project, said that the privately funded project, is expected to allow investors recoup their money after, which they will hand over the seaport to the Federal Government. “The project will contribute about $360 billion over the years. It sounds much, but we actually need more of that money to accomplish what we want to achieve. But obviously taxes will be collected here and even them (contractors) will pay taxes. I am not sure there was any taxes mentioned in the agreement, but I doubt there is any tax exemption. “This is the first seaport in Nigeria. What we had all these while are river ports , Tincan is a river port, Apapa is a river port and port Harcourt too. Right here, you have 16.5 metres drafts which is good for the country, but the country needs more than just one of this port because of the increase in commercial activities in the future. To facilitate its completion, the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, signed the $629 million financing facility aimed at completing the Lekki Deep Seaport project. According to the agreement, Nigeria’s first deep seaport will be delivered on time. The signing of the agreement has put to rest the speculations and all reservations concerning the speedy delivery of the viable project. Upon completion, the project has enormous capacity not only to stimulate the Lagos economy, but equally to push it up in the index of largest economies in the world. The Lekki port would become the first deep seaport in Nigeria and the container transportation hub in Africa. The signing of the $629 million financing facility by the governor, offers a new impetus for socio-economic growth in the state. It also represents the dawn of a new era in the state government’s ambitious plan to transform the Lekki corridor into a new economic hub in West and Central African subregion. The President, Nigeria Private Sector Alliance, Mr Adetokunbo Kayode, said the Lekki port, being one of the biggest in Africa, would be of huge benefit to the nation’s economy. Kayode, a former Attorney General and Minister of Justice, said upon its completion, the project would result in better efficiency in the import and export of goods in the country. He said: ”Of course it will also help us to reduce the stress that has been created by Apapa port which is a colonial port which we ought to have done away with 50 years ago. ”But right now, we have this opportunity, this first phase which hopefully should be completed before the end of the year would help to alleviate all the challenges of international trade in Nigeria’’.