Since the beginning of the current transition programme, the question of zoning of Ebonyi governorship seat has generated enormous controversy. Many political analysts and politicians alike had taken it for granted that the political process would smoothly throw up a successor to the incumbent governor of Ebonyi State, David Nweze Umahi, whose second tenure would come to an end on May 29, 2023. Emma Anya examines the contentious issues in this report. LONG before the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) released the time-table for the transition, a very heated debate ensued as to which senatorial district or power block should produce the next Governor of Ebonyi State, which was created on October 1, 1996 by late Gen. Sani Abacha. Up till this moment, the debate has continued unabated without any consensus as to what is to be done. An informed source attributed these salvos to the fact that the processes which led to the rotation from one zone to the other among Ebonyi North, Ebonyi Central and Ebonyi South Districts, were not necessarily orderly but we’re the outcome of power struggle. A seasoned political Scientist, Prof. Eugene Nweke recently argued that there were no laid down procedures for zoning the governorship seat. Yes, the political expert has a point there. And that is why many of those who thought that zoning or rotation of the exalted office was sacrosanct are now finding it difficult to be liberal in considering other people’s point of view. As it is now, no group is willing to listen to any form of superior reasoning. And that is actually why politics is a very dynamic game. Sometime last year, two former governors of the state, Dr. Sam Egwu (now a sitting Senator and Chief Martin Elechi, gave vent to the idea that the governorship seat should go to Ebonyi North where the rotation started in 1999. This theory of political sequencing as adumbrated by these elders was well-thought. But their views did not go down well with some political actors from Ebonyi Central Senatorial district who vehemently opposed any arrangement that will exclude them and their zone from contesting for the office. The first salvo in 2022 was fired by Sen. Obinna Ogba who made it clear that there was nothing like zoning or rotational principle in Ebonyi state. He argued that zoning was neither sacrosanct nor binding on the aspirants as they had the liberty to contest. Ogba’s assertion tallies with Prof Nweke’s thesis on the matter. After all in previous contests, politicians from across the zones had always contested. There was nothing to bind them from contesting. In 1999 when Dr Sam Egwu won under the PDP platform, Dr. Ogbonnnaya Onu of APP gave him a good run for his money. In 2007 when Chief Martin Elechi contested, his rival was the same Dr. Onu from Ebonyi from South Senatorial district. Elechi won. In 2015 when David Umahi was elected, Architect Edward Nkwegu gave him a strong showdown. As it is today, over 18 guber aspirants have indicated interest to contest the position. In Ebonyi North, there are about 12 of them. Ebonyi Central has four aspirants while Ebonyi South has one aspirant. The frontline aspirants in the PDP include Engr. Fidelis Nwankwo, Sylvester Ogbaga, Dr. Eze Immanuel Eze, Prof. Mrs Adaeze Nwuzor, Augustine Igwe Edeze, the Nwazunku brothers etc. These are all from Izzi clan in Ebonyi North zone.   2023: Ministers taking Buhari for granted – Alkali     2023: Anxiety mounts in Ogun APC over primaries     I’m a step away from clinching PDP presidential ticket…   From the Central azone, the aspirants are: Sen. Obinna Ogba, Sen. Igwe Nwagu, Hon. Anayo Edwin Nwonu and Hon. Chris Usulor. Ebonyi South has only one aspirant in the person of Dr. Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odi ( Anyi Chuks), a successful business mogul based in Lagos. In the APC, there are a couple of Guber aspirants such as Chief Elias Mbam, Christopher Ogbonnia Nwifuru, Sen. Ali Ucha etc. It is manifest at the moment that the aspirants from Ebonyi Central and Ebonyi South zones do not subscribe to the zoning principle. Their argument is that every zone had tested the governorship seat and therefore any zone can take the position and kick-start the process. On 22nd February, 2022, Dr. Jerry Uhuo wrote an article, titled, “The Political Mathematics of Zoning” which was published in the Nigerian Voice, an on-line newspaper. He argued that the Ebonyi charter of equity had been distorted in 1999 when Ebonyi North unilaterally took the governorship seat without respecting the gentleman agreement which was reached by the founding fathers of the state. The agreement was that if Abakaliki becomes the capital of the new state, then the first democratically elected governor should come from Afikpo block. But some elements from Ebonyi North rushed to seize power through the instrumentality of the military rulers at that time. Uhuo further opined that the governorship had gone round the three zones, even though not by deliberate calculation of equity or zoning. Then he argued against rotating the governorship back to the North zone now. He stated that the state capital is an item of weight like the post of Governor. “In fact, the value of the state capital is higher because it is not movable and every Government must respect and develop it”. However, aspirants from Ebonyi North do not want to let go. On 18th April, 2022, they issued a Communique calling for the zoning of the guber seat to their zone. But aspirants from Ebonyi Central countered them, stating that Ebonyi state was founded/created on the basis of two blocks, Abakaliki and Afikpo and never based on  senatorial  arrangement. They contended that “if any senatorial zone is to recuse itself from the 2023 guber elections, it should be Ebonyi North senatorial zone. This will not only serve as a punishment for violating  the gentlemanly block zoning arrangement of the founding fathers but that they had benefitted double, having  the state capital and first Governorship slot at the same time.” Following what appeared like a stalemate over the zoning, some concerned members, stakeholders and Elders of PDP met at Afikpo and urged the party to throw open the contest if it has become difficult for Ebonyi North to continue the rotation. “It is either they zone it to Ebonyi North or it should be thrown open to all the zones. The Concerned Stakeholders, which included Abia Onyike, Ogbonnia Oko Enyim, Samuel Okporie, Jerry Obasi, Dr. Nnanna Onuoha and other, said they will support an approach that will carry all the senatorial zones along on the path of equity, justice and fairness.