Actress Dorcas Fapson and her stylist have been engaged in an heated argument over the settlement of debt for AMVCA dress. Just hours after the AMVCA awards ended, her stylist Maklinscout called her out for still owing her for the dress she wore to the award night show. He accused her of neither giving him visibility nor paying the complete money. He said: “DSF!! Please pay me my money!! You didn’t pay for fabrics nor for my service and you are not there posting me? What did I do wrong? For helping a celebrity that didn’t have much on her but wanted to go for AMVCA?? Dsf you blocked me after reaching out to you for my balance, you paid 200k for a fabric of 470k which you saw with your eyes before I bought it. “You reached out on Thursday for an event happening on Saturday, you paid on Friday, in a day, Dsf?? “I pulled out a dress, for you without paying a dime, after event you didn’t pay me, in less than 24 hours, I made that dress, when I even got to the hotel your friends said I should apologize and send text for coming late when you were even the one that paid late, I still apologised as per work relationship. “After the event, you told your p.a to bring the cloth to you, that the photographer wants to take pictures again, I was wondering cause we already took pictures. “You used your nails to make holes on the dress, cause I got home to see. No fittings or anything and you’re saying you won’t pay me for an outfit you wore? If you didn’t like it, why did you wear it please? You even pose for pictures and videos that same night. “Now you went to your page to post a picture with a silly caption after I reached out for my balance cause you don’t want to pay my money.   Funke Akindele reveals twin’s names     My dress costs $100,000 – Ifu Ennada     Omoni Oboli, touts at war over movie production   ‘Dsf the person that won best dressed didn’t wear a 200k dress excuse me?!! If it was that way, like 59 people go chop the award!! “Designers and stylists in the house? Please haven’t I failed you by making a dress without payment. This lady right here didn’t even pay in full for the fabric, I used my money to balance it up just so she can quickly get the dress, till now she hasn’t paid!! “Dsf you could have explained you don’t have much but wanted to attend the AMVCA so bad cause I didn’t hear them call your name to present the award yesterday? ” I didn’t bath or change my outfit just go make you happy and you still did this!! Trying to spoil my brand, I have worked with celebrities and I have never had issues with any. “Fear God!! You texted me first cause you liked my work, now to pay you say you no like work again, all the way from Abuja haba!” Reacting to the call, the actress, who appeared in a stunning red dress, accused the stylist of unprofessionalism. She said the clothes were not to her taste as they were not well fitted even up to the last hour. She said: “It’s actually been a while since I dragged anyone. But this one, I go drag am like baby gen. Rubbish “This clown showed up when the event was almost done and started pinning the dress on me. “It’s crazy how he was so apologetic but is online writing rubbish. If you see that boy, help me slap am I beg. “I literally had to hold it together. This idiot didn’t stop apologizing yesterday but is online looking for clout. If I dash you slap.”