The Federal Government yesterday shortlisted deserving individuals and organisations for the conferment of the National Productivity Order of Merit (NPOM) Award for 2019 and 2020. They include the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abdullahi Adamu, Secretary to the Government of the Federation Boss Mustapha, former Director General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Dr. Chike Ihekweazu, Lagos State Commissioner for Health Dr. Akin Abayomi, industrialist Abdulsamad Rabiu and billionaire businessman Mike Adenuga jnr. Minister of Labour and Employment Senator Chris Ngige disclosed this during a briefing ahead of the 19th National Productivity Day and Conferment of the National Productivity Order of Merit (NPOM) Award by President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday. Ngige said NPOM posthumous awards would also be conferred on the late Dr. Ameyo Stella Adadevoh, who died from the Ebola virus while quarantining the patient zero, Patrick Sawyer, a Liberian in a medical facility in Lagos, as well as the late Mr. Babatunde Lawal, who until his death was the permanent secretary, Cabinet Affairs Office, in the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation. The organisations shortlisted for the award, according to the minister, include the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Erisco Foods Limited, Financial Derivatives Limited, Lagos, Crown Flour Mills, Lagos and Tummy Foods Industry Limited. Ngige said the Buhari administration had continued to exhibit dedication to the overall socio-economic growth and development of the nation in order to transform it for improved standard of living for Nigerians. The minister said: “The government is therefore conscious of the cardinal place of productivity in the realisation of the overall development of the nation.   Military incursion, insecurity threaten democracy in Africa,…     Osinbajo: Africa must produce what it eats     ‘Malabu scam’: Defendant voluntarily gave statement, says…   “The priority areas vision for Nigeria is clear and achievable and the administration focuses on enhancing higher productivity, as no nation can be self-reliant and competitive in the international market without productivity improvement in all sectors of the economy. “This administration has charted a path for economic growth and development for Nigeria with a new development plan. The Medium Term National Development Plan (MTNDP 2021-2025) succeeds the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) with focus on economic diversification, investment in infrastructure, security and good governance, educated and healthy population, poverty alleviation and economic and social development across the states.” Ngige said no nation could enhance the quality of lives of its citizens and be self-reliant and competitive in the international market without productivity improvement in all sectors of the economy. He described productivity as the most important determinant of social economic growth, wealth creation, employment generation and overall improved standard of living. “Given the cardinal role of productivity, it is imperative that the citizenry be consistently reminded  of the need for the development of a productive mindset that would ensure the productive growth of all sectors of the economy. “It is in realisation of this that the Federal Government through the National Policy on Productivity declared that a day shall be observed as the National Productivity Day (NPD) throughout the country every year. “The decision of the government to observe NPD every year was predicated on the need to stimulate productivity consciousness and reward innovation, productivity and hard work among Nigerians,” Ngige said.