The 2022 Toyota Avalon is one of the only vehicles left in the large sedan class. The Chevy Impala and Ford Taurus are long gone, so the segment now consists of just three vehicles: the Avalon and the Dodge Charger/Chrysler 300 twins. The Avalon is the best of the bunch. It offers a smooth ride, comfortable seats and a richly appointed interior. Unfortunately, Toyota has confirmed that 2022 is the Avalon’s last year of production. Toyota has also made changes to available equipment by eliminating the optional all-wheel-drive system and discontinuing the TRD trim level. The Avalon is now in this generation’s fourth model year, and there haven’t been many complaints about this well-rounded big sedan. The Toyota Avalon is highly recommended for a large sedan. The Avalon delivers auto lovers’ choice of a large, comfortable, cruising sedan, but it is also surprisingly enjoyable to drive. There’s good power, and it has an available adaptive suspension system that is responsive on twisty roads. It’s also a good value because of its high fuel economy and luxurious surroundings, which rival those of its Lexus ES cousin for a lot less money. With a potent 301-horsepower V6 mated to a smooth-shifting transmission, the Avalon has good power to get up and go. It is also pleasant to use in most scenarios, from long road trips and afternoon cruises to day-to-day commutes and short errands around town. Braking is consistent and never grabby, which lends to its comfort in daily use. The Avalon is surprising in its athleticism — with shockingly enjoyable handling and drivability. While not a sport sedan, this cruiser can handle twisty roads with relative ease for a vehicle of its size. Think about a mobile defensive end or tackle in football as opposed to an athletic linebacker. Comfort is a strength for the Avalon and is probably the primary reason one would consider such a large sedan. All seating positions give you ample cushioning and support for long drives or short cruises. The leather upholstery is very soft and gives the sensation that the Avalon is more upscale than its price suggests. The ride is cushioned and makes drivers feel shielded from harsh roads. The cabin is also really cozy due to the climate control’s quick heating and cooling. While there is no rattling or shaking inside the cabin, road noise is somewhat present at all times. The Avalon’s cabin is a decent place to be. It is roomy and user-friendly. There are even redundant key functions located on the steering wheel. Legroom is abundant, the driving position is superb due to its multitude and depth of adjustments, and visibility is great up front and modest to the sides and over the shoulder.   Cars45, now Jiji Cars     Hyundai unveils ‘high-tech’ Santa Fe, Elantra     Mikano Motors introduces Geely Azkarra   As far as controls go, there are two minor issues: The radio tuning knob can be a reach for some, and a couple of functions, such as turning on the camera view, are tucked away. While legroom is a strength, headroom can feel a little compromised for taller people — especially in the rear due to the sloping roofline. Lastly, the low-resolution rearview camera and display could use an upgrade. Toyota’s Entune system and its 9-inch touchscreen are surprisingly good. Apple CarPlay and Android Auto smartphone integration systems are supported. The display is bright and responds well to inputs, but Toyota tends to lock out more functions while you’re driving than other carmakers. There are two USB ports up front and two in back. The front console also houses a wireless charging pad. The car’s built-in voice controls are hit-or-miss — it’s better at understanding radio commands than navigation commands. While cargo capacity is average on paper, the Avalon works out to be more convenient compared to some others due to the wide trunk opening, broad floor and convenient loading height. You might be disappointed if you’re the type who folds the rear seats to expand the space because there’s a sizable step up to the folded seats. Inside, there are numerous small cubbies, plenty of cup-holders, and a center console that’s sizable and surprisingly deep. The door pockets are average, but there are enough other options that it’s not a concern. The Avalon really shines when it comes to fitting child safety seats. The car seat anchors are easy to access, and the huge rear bench has space enough for just about any type of seat. The Avalon is rated at 25 combined mpg (22 city/31 highway), which is excellent for this class of car. It’s not outstanding like the hybrid variant, but it’s still really good. During our mixed-driving 115-mile evaluation route, we were able to observe 26 mpg, which slightly beat the combined EPA score. The Avalon offers a good deal of quality and refinement. It feels close enough to the Lexus ES in this regard that someone looking for a large sedan might want to consider the Avalon because it costs thousands less. Beyond the great deal, you also get high gas mileage, a good roadside assistance programme, and free scheduled maintenance for the first two years. The Avalon is a low-key performer. The exterior, aside from the huge brace-face grille, is nondescript, while the interior delivers a composed, civil and sophisticated style. None of this is bad, but it sets you up to be surprised by its hidden athleticism. In the context of a big family sedan, it’s fun to drive due to its surprising handling capabilities and strong V6 engine. The 2022 Toyota Avalon is available in three trim levels: XLE, Touring and Limited. All trims come standard with front-wheel drive and a 3.5-liter V6 engine (301 horsepower, 267 lb-ft of torque) mated to an eight-speed automatic transmission. A hybrid version is also available and is reviewed separately.