Like Sokoto’s killer herd, the Lagos mob and Anambra’s murderous gunmen make manure and loam out of bestial nature. Chaos is their fertile lair, and murder, their portal to living. Together, they made living theatre of murderous lust. There was no gap between their cravings and actualization; fervour leapt from their hearts into savage visibility. From the Sokoto herd, Lagos mob to Anambra’s bloodhounds, a grisly charade morphs from contemplation to chaos. The killers made savage personae a moral medium, they coveted fury as faith. In Sokoto, fanaticism spread like a toxin to faith; the herd, setting Deborah Samuel afire for alleged blasphemy, perverted reality. Horrid variants erupted in Lagos and Anambra in due course. On May 12, a mob of commercial motorcyclists attacked and killed a sound engineer, David Imoh, in Lekki, Lagos. The father of two was lynched and burned to death during a disagreement over an N100 balance with one of the motorcyclists. Ten days later, in Anambra, 32-year-old heavily pregnant Harira Jibril and her four children, Fatima, 9; Khadijah, 7; Hadiza, 5; and Zaituna, 2, were brutally hacked to death, alongside six others, by yet-to-be-identified gunmen at Isulo, in Orumba area of Anambra State. Harira was one week away from her delivery date, according to her husband, Ahmed. We turn now to the ultimate question of rage. Rage commanded bloodlust across Sokoto, Lagos, and Anambra. It was forged by society into the demonic herds. The killer mobs and their victims were bound in ritual precincts; the former originated murder and the latter suffered it. But while a good many afflicted by the virus of Islamophobia hinge the bloodshed in Sokoto to the core of the Islamic faith, they conveniently feel less rage and revulsion at the killings in Anambra and Lagos. Islam counsels peace, love, and light hence it bears no relation to the cruelty and darkness radiated from the podiums and soapboxes of Sokoto’s misguided, illiterate mob. The consequent outrage benchmarks bland and brazen vistas of inhumanity. Through the melee, a troubling pattern manifests in debaters’ rationalizations of their respective gospels of hate. The true Muslim understands that his Holy Quran counsels peace hence there is no justification for the Sokoto herd’s killing of Deborah Samuel. If Deborah’s death is condemnable, so was the pregnant mother of four, Harira Jibril’s barbaric murder alongside her four children and six others. Some media platforms report militants of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) as the perpetrators of the heinous crime but apologists of the group have subsequently debunked the claim, condemning the killing. If Harira, who was nine months pregnant and just a week to her delivery date thought she would be spared on basis of her pregnancy and four underage children, she was clearly mistaken; her attackers paid no mind to such humane contemplation. They maniacally butchered her. The killings occurred about 24 hours after gunmen beheaded a lawmaker, Okechukwu Okoye, in Anambra State. In a statement on Tuesday, Governor Soludo, apparently trying to prevent violent retaliation from northern Nigeria, the home region of the victims, said “there is no targeted ethnic or religious killings in Anambra State. As a matter of fact, Anambra indigenes have suffered more casualties as a result of the unfortunate killings.”   New anti-terrorism law     Colour and character of 2023 presidential aspirants     Kudos on mandatory health insurance   As part of efforts to quell the outrage over the killings, the State Commissioner of Police, Echeng Echeng, has visited the Hausa communities in Amansea to assure them of adequate security and protection. According to police spokesperson Tochukwu Ikenga, investigations to unravel the cause of the killings in the State have since commenced. Much of the violence in Anambra State, as well as the entire southeast region, has been blamed on proscribed IPOB, which is seeking secession of the region from Nigeria. Unnerved by the Anambra killings, Ruth-Reje Bassey-Okim, a journalist-poet, and social change advocate, said, “I was very uncomfortable about the way people made the death of Deborah look like an Islamic thing. I shared my view on my status about it not being a Muslim thing but a Nigerian thing and some people wanted to skin me alive. “Look at this now, IPOB or whatever masquerade they are putting on; unknown gunmen, Eastern security network…are killing northerners and even Igbo Muslims. That’s appalling. A lot of people won’t protest about that because they can not see northerners or Muslims as vulnerable, they can never imagine them as victims.” She further laments: “What about the jungle justice being carried out in Calabar, isn’t it done by Christians? When someone shouts “thief o” an angry mob converges within seconds and the person is burnt. Aren’t these people Christians? “Who gave anyone the effrontery to take the life of another person? All these extrajudicial killings need to stop. It’s not a time to promote ‘Islamophobia,’ it’s a time for everyone to come together and speak out against these killings irrespective of religion.” “A Hausa pregnant woman was killed in the southeast? How can one even stomach that? Let’s get rid of ethnic and religious sentiments and promote humanity. We are humans for God’s sake. “Extrajudicial killing is a Nigerian problem. This isn’t a problem in Ghana and in some African countries. Nigerians are just too bloodthirsty. Let’s take the bull by the horn. I know how tasty it is to spread hate about religion but that’s not what we should do right now. In the southeast, the lives of northerners are at risk. The lives of Nigerians are at risk. I don’t even know what other thing to say but this is so sad. Are you sure we can continue like this?” In response to her, I’d say, “Nigeria can’t continue like this.” Ruth-Reje’s gripe is further accentuated by southern Nigeria’s selective display of rage and mortification at the rampant killings pervasive in contemporary Nigeria. I’d blame this on what I call the social prejudicial complex. This affliction has secured a grip on large segments of Nigerian society. It has corrupted the family, government, academia, and high and low societies. It has exceeded what the few deep thinkers, opinion moulders, and leader-writers had anticipated and feared. Societal foundries of thought including academia, religious institutions, and the economic and political intelligentsia, are under the yoke of prejudice fostered by religious fanatics, reactionary neoconservatives, confused liberals, and partisan social institutions. While we condemn ‘religious’ fanaticism in the north, the ruckus of selective rage and morality of religious and ethnic bigots down south is also something we must watch out for. The rabid bloodlust of the northern herd is resonant in the killings and random murders carried out by the “unknown gunmen” and killer mobs of the south. Sadly, a culture of dubious silence and selective morality pervades Nigeria’s southern belt. Ultimately, it has shackled supposed bastions of morality, scholarship, and enlightenment to the sinister yoke of bigotry with its various manifestations. These human and institutional elements are the weak links in the country’s war on terrorism and the most sinister forms of dogmatism. The savage intolerance embraced by the Nigerian herd would have terrified Adorno. He knew that radical evil was possible only with the collaboration of a timid, cowed, and confused population, a system of propaganda and mass media that offered little more than spectacle and entertainment, and an educational system that did not transmit transcendent values or nurture the capacity for individual conscience. Thus is the Nigerian culture; it banishes the anxieties and complexities of moral choice and embraces feral morality.