Over 1,000 poultry farmers in Cross River State have been brought under seven different clusters and supported with a grant of 40,000 birds which they will grow in the ultramodern poultry farm named Calachika owned by the State Government. The 40,000 broilers to the farmers is a grant under the World Bank assisted Agro-Processing Productivity Enhancement and Livelihood Improvement Support (APPEALS) Project. Deputy Governor Ivara Esu noted the initiative will ensure constant production and supply of matured poultry birds to feed the chicken processing plant, already put in place and operational at the Ayade’s Industrial park. He said the State Government is happy that a lot of the farmers that belong the clusters are youths because Governor Ben Ayade has been passionate about youth engagements and empowerment. He commended the World Bank and the management of the Appeals project both at the National and the state level noting that many have been engaged and made more efficient in the chosen agricultural value chain through different Appeals initiative, be it in the poultry, rice or cocoa value chain.   Food security: Women to the rescue     How dearth of processors is affecting cashew exports     How dearth of processors is affecting cashew exports   He talked about the state owned poultry farm which has been approved for pilot project with the Appeals, saying that the poultry is automated and fitted with modern facility good for the rearing of chicken. He charged the farmers to pay good attention to things they have to do so that that infection will be prevented in the poultry and the mortality rate will be near zero. National Coordinator of the Appeals project, Alhaji Muhammad Jordi, said that bringing over a thousand farmers together under different clusters to teach them and help them manage their chosen business is a commendable initiatives of the Cross River State government. He maintained that Appeals project in Cross River has been exemplary. One of the beneficiaries, Augustine, said they have been under training to enhance their knowledge and skills in poultry farming.