Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike has explained how former Governor Peter Odili’s decision to produce his successor in 2007 from the Ikwerre ethnic nationality earned him enemies in the State. Wike regretted that the Ikwerre people that Odili fought for were the first to betray him and put him in the witness box. He said: “Dr. Odili biggest problem in this state today, people must know the truth, is because he said Ikwerre man must become governor, that’s it. If any man tells you that Odili has committed any other sin, it’s a lie. It’s just because he said Ikwerre man must become governor. “Unfortunately, we the Ikwerre people whom he said should be Governor are ones that put him in the witness box. But , I want to appeal to him, forgive, you are a Christian. You are a Christian, forgive all of us.” Wike spoke on Monday night during a State banquet organised at the Government House, Port Harcourt, in honour of Hon. Justice Mary Peter Odili, on her 70th birthday and retirement from the Supreme Court of Nigeria. Wike recalled how the Odili family suffered blackmail and humiliation because of him, vowed never to grieve or engage in act that would bring them into disrepute. He said that Odili’s fatherly advice contributed immensely in his success in the governance and transformation of Rivers State since 2015. Wike said he would remain eternally grateful to Justice Mary Odili, for creating the opportunity for him to meet her husband when he ventured into active partisan politics in 1998. He said there was no politician serving at the federal or state level since 1999 that would deny passing through the tutelage of Dr. Odili. He said despite the generosity of Dr. Odili and his family, some of those they helped politically regrettably betrayed and humiliated them. “I have never seen a man who has suffered humiliation, I have never seen a man who has suffered betrayal in life like Dr. Odili”, he said. Wike further asserted that those accusing judiciary of being corrupt were not clean themselves.   FG orders Facebook, others to stop IPOB from hate posts     UPDATED: Gas explosion kills five, injures many in Kano     I’m ready for probe over alleged N50bn diversion- APC…   He noted that while corruption in the judiciary undermined the courts’ credibility, persons, who were quick to throw tantrum at judiciary, particularly legal practitioners were culpable as well. He said: “For me, those who are abusing judiciary of corruption, their hands are not clean. Anybody who is abusing judiciary or judges, their hands are not clean. But, that does not also mean that even you in the judiciary should not keep your house in order. That is the truth.” Ahead of the 2023 general elections, the governor urged State High Courts to abide by the provisions of the new Electoral Act prohibiting them from handling pre-election or electoral matters. He said some state High Courts were already acting in contravention of the law. “The truth is that the Electoral Act says anything about pre election or electoral matters, is now to be decided by the Federal High Court”, he said. Odili said all through his wife’s career as a judicial officer, he never for once attempted to influence her in any matter. He recalled two instances when a late traditional ruler in Port Harcourt and his extended family members from Ndoni approached him to intervene in matters before his wife’s court, but he declined and offered to help them pay their legal fees. According to him: “When I finished being Governor and went to Abuja to spend time with her, and a lot of political cases as you know were rolling over each other. “All my friends in Abuja know and they tell each other, the moment you have a case either at the Court of Appeal when she was there or at the Supreme Court, the access you use to have to come as a personal friend ceases until the case is over.” Odili thanked Wike and the people of Rivers State for honouring his wife after 44 years of meritorious service in the judiciary. The Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, described Justice Odili, as an epitome of dignity, hardwork, fairness and excellence. Muhammad, who was represented by Justice of the Supreme Court, Justice Kudirat Kekere-Ekun, said Justice Odili remained an inspiration to the girl child. “My lord has shown what is possible with diligence, hard work and integrity. Through you we see that the sky is the limit,”he said.