Popular media influencer, Sulaiman Aisha Ewawunmi has said she is not bothered with online trolls on her body size. Ewawunmi, who is known for her bold and beautiful body, said that the comment generated from her followers on social media soared her success. The 24-year-old influencer, who hails from Kogi State was born and bred in Lagos State She studied Home Economics and Food Science at the University of Ilorin (UNILORIN) According to her, she has developed a thick skin for trolls because she just wanted to have fun and entertain her followers, even though comments from trolls weakened her emotionally. “My body-shaming experience is a terrible one, I won’t lie I’ve been body-shamed a lot, From head to toe, lol but I never let it get to me, I mean, who is popular that hasn’t gotten body shamed before?   Jaro Davids dedicates ‘Obong of Sankwala’ to Obanliku LG     ICYMI: I need a complete man for urgent marriage –…     Actress Ngozi Ezeonu shares glowing pictures at 57   “I never let it get the best part of me. People have called me all sorts of names, compare me with different things, you name it. “But I’ve never felt insecure about my body before I’m a beautiful woman, I’m sexy. Trollers will only say stuff online and when you look at the people body shaming, they are depressed people, they are frustrated and looking for who to transfer their aggression on. “You’ll never see a successful man/ woman staying online to body shame people. I have a very nice shape and I’m attractive, so I’ve never been insecure about my body, even though I’m a very shy person,” she added. She reiterated that her influencing career started with an inbox from a brand that wanted her to promote their brand with the aid of her vast follower. This she acknowledged as a breakthrough in influencing her career “I started having engagement on my tweets, and one day, a brand texted me that they’d love me to promote their brand. I spoke to my friend in the field about it, and he told me what to do. The brand was so impressed and had to renew our contract. It’s something I’m very good at, but I never knew until I started it.”