The National Universities Commission (NUC) has given full accreditation to four courses run by Trinity University, Yaba, Lagos. In a letter addressed to the Vice-Chancellor,  Prof. Charles Ayo, the NUC listed the accredited four programmes as Microbiology, Computer Science and  Information Technology in the Faculty of Basic, Medical and Applied Sciences. Also accredited is Mass Communication in the Faculty of Arts, Management and Social Sciences. Full accreditation was given to the four courses by the NUC following the accreditation that was carried out last December by a team of academics and professors from various universities across the country. Following the success of the accreditation, Ayo expressed satisfaction with the exercise. He said: “The fact that we got this done is a validation of the good work that we are doing as an institution. It is not an easy task for a university that is barely three years old to record such a feat. “With the  accreditation granted, the degrees awarded in the four programmes by the university are valid and recognised. Thus, certificates issued to graduates are presentable anywhere in the world, and also acceptable and usable to mobilise for the one-year mandatory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) programme,” he said.   Making a case for women in politics     Don rewards student for excellence     Vocational training vital to students, says don   He thanked members of council of the university and a staff for their dedication and urged them to continue to work harder to give the institution a good standing in the country  and globally. Meanwhile, President, Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), Mrs. Comfort Olu Eyitayo,  has pledged the support of the institute to the university. The ICAN President, Mrs. Comfort Olu Eyitayo, during a visit to the university, said the institute was building synergy with educational institutions across the country to ensure corporate governance and accountability. She said her visit was imperative for  students to  realise the importance of the profession and keep its ethics. Welcoming the president, Ayo expressed delight at the visit of the ICAN team to the institution. He noted  that the school authorities would continue to look for opportunities for its students to collaborate, learn from experts and  add value to the society.