Gunmen on Monday set ablaze Idemili North Local Government secretariat and a Magistrate Court in Ogidi, Anambra State. The gunmen also burnt the District office of the Enugu Electricity Distribution Company PLC (EEDC) in the area. The Nation gathered that items razed by the arsonists include over 32 utility and operational vehicles parked inside the premises, files and properties as well as the secretariat building itself. Videos and pictures circulating online showed that the the entire buildings were reduced to rubbles with the vehicles burnt beyond repair. Confirming the incident, Police spokesperson, Tochukwu Ikenga attributed the act to unidentified arsonists. “Yes, the incident was confirmed, and our men were there to restore normalcy. Right now, the fire has been put off, and calm has been restored to the area,” Ikenga said. The Head, Corporate Communications, EEDC, Emeka Ezeh, who also confirmed the incident in a statement, described it as big loss and great setback to the company. He said about 32 utility and operational vehicles, including other assets and equipment within the premises were razed by the hoodlums. He added that one of the security personnel manning the office was attacked by the miscreants who inflicted several machete wounds on his head, leg and arm, while his other colleagues fled for their lives. He said: “In the early hours of today, Monday, 16th May, 2022, at about 1.45am, the Ogidi District of Enugu Electricity Distribution Company PLC (EEDC) was set ablaze by unidentified criminal elements, leaving about 32 utility and operational vehicles all burnt, including other assets and equipment within the premises. “Efforts made to reach the Anambra State Fire Service at the time to come and rescue the situation did not yield any positive result, leaving members of staff who were on ground to assist in salvaging the situation helpless, as they watched the office building and other assets go down in flames.   Atiku, Wike, Saraki, others battle for 3,700 delegates     #JusticeForDave: Nigerians demand justice for sound engineer…     JUST IN: Supreme Court to hear suit by Buhari, Malami…   “It later took the intervention of the Honourable Commissioner for Utilities, Anambra State, Engr. Julius Chukwuemeka, at about 9.05am this morning to bring the Fire Service team down to the scene of the incident. “The management of EEDC expressed shock over this ugly incident which is happening at a time the company has invested so much to improve on its operations and transform the socio-economic landscape of the area. “This is a big loss to EEDC, and a great setback to the efforts being made by the company to strengthen its network and improve the quality of service to its customers within Ogidi and Anambra State at large. “We have already brought this development to the attention of the relevant authorities and it is expected that proper investigation will be carried out and the perpetrators of this dastardly act brought to book. “There is no way a developing economy as ours can progress if we continue to record this kind of incident. “It was gathered that having gained access into the office complex by pulling down part of the wall, the criminals attacked one of the security personnel manning the office and inflicted several machete wounds on his head, leg and arm as they were demanding for his gun, while his other colleagues ran for their lives. “The victim is currently receiving treatment at the hospital. We thank God that no life was lost, we condemn this unjustifiable act and pray such does not reoccur”. Also, gunmen on Sunday night night allegedly engaged military men in a shoot out at 3-3 estate, Nkwelle Ezunaka, near Onitsha. The unidentified riffle wielding men reportedly took battled to the door step of the military in a spot, where they are stationed, within the estate. The gunmen also visited the Government Reserved Area (GRA) in Onitsha where they also shot intermittently. The Nation gathered that the shootings which started at about 10pm lasted late into the night with bullets flying in the air, while expended shells dropped on roofs of residents in torrent. A resident of the area, who spoke to our correspondent in confidence said:”Yesterday night at housing estate gate, unknown gun men attacked the military men securing us. “We were scared all through the night as sounds of gunshot rent the air. There was three hours open fire. My estate was hot from 10pm – 12am.”