Relationships are formed daily based on human interactions and it is not out of place when some of these relationships progress from platonic friendship into a romantic relationship. However, concerns have been raised whether it is appropriate or inappropriate to go into a romantic relationship in the workplace and how this affects productivity. Some Lagos residents on Saturday spoke on their perception of office romance in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). Mr Ayomide Atolagbe, a graphic designer, described office romance as an unofficial conduct. “Most times, it’s “chop , wash mouth and run”. A lot of times, most office romance are just to ease sexual urges and after it’s satisfied, that’s all. Though, not all. “Oftentimes, no matter how discreet both parties involved are, words still get around, men move on from this easily but not quite so for women,” he said. However, Atolagbe said that he could only engage in a romantic relationship in the office if he finds the woman okay to start a positive friendship with, to know her better. “Most marriage proposals occur as a result of close contact between partners or co-workers. Overtime, they develop genuine and in some cases ingenuine feelings and get engaged,” he said. Mr Tunde Lawal, a banker, said that dating in the workplace was one thing that had been there for a long time and might not fade out completely. “I have engaged in office romance with a lady and it didn’t work out because there was a disparity in religion and neither of us was willing to convert to the other. “I feel it is appropriate especially if none of the two parties is a subordinate to the other, that kind of gives them same leverage. “It could lead to marriage if the feelings are genuine and one of the parties is willing to go to another location and both parties may help reduce each other’s stress on the job,” he said. According to Bolanle Fagunwa, a businessman, office romance is not wrong as long as those involved learn to separate work from romance.   Extra judicial killing alien to Islam – NASFAT     Blasphemy: Every tweet has to get my approval, Atiku insists     #JusticeForDeborah: More outrage over murder of female…   He said it was equally helpful for such persons to create as much space for each other as necessary, so that an employer does not get an impression that the relationship would overshadow their primary responsibilities in the office. “Such persons should not be seen to be eating from the same plate, cuddling, holding hands on the hallway or frequently visiting each other’s offices for reasons that could not be seen as official,” he said. According to him, these can send a wrong signal to an employer. Also, Nkechi Chime, a banker, told NAN that office romance wasn’t a bad idea, as long as the individuals keep it a secret and separate work from romance. “It’s better to be discreet about it. So, should the relationship pack up, both parties can lick their wounds privately. “I think it should be discreet until both the man and woman are convinced about each other’s feelings, this takes the pressure off, I believe,” she said. Mrs Oluwatoyin Onigbanjo, the founder of August Secret Baby Foods, told NAN that as an entrepreneur with a considerable staff strength, she was not against it as long as it does not affect productivity. “I personally don’t have issues with it, the only issue I have is the possible clash of interest, for instance, husband and wife cannot handle some positions that clash. “Well, people have to get to know each other before proceeding on anything serious, as long as they are both mature to handle whatever the outcome is,” she said. Also, a Human Resource Manager, Mayowa Oloyede, said it was important employees understand their company’s policies concerning office romance. “It is an HR nightmare waiting to happen where you could both be fired if you can quit your job anytime without reputational risk, it is no different than any other romance with a friend. “For women, there is an increased reputational risk that can affect careers. “For men, there is a legal risk of sexual harassment, so for both genders, this kind of romance requires extra trust in their dating partner,” she said. (NAN)