Abia State, at the return of democracy in Nigeria in 1999, was divided into three Senatorial Districts namely; Abia North, comprising Arochukwu, Ohafia, Bende, Isuikwuato and Umunneochi local government areas, Abia Central, comprising Umuahia North and South, Ikwuano, Osisioma, Isiala Ngwa North and South LGAs and Abia South, comprising of Obingwa, Ugwunagbo, Ukwa East and Ukwa West respectively to ensure even distribution of democratic dividend across the 17 local government areas of the state. The likes of Senators Ike Nwachukwu, Uche Chukwumerije from Abia North, Bob Nwanunu, Chris Adighije, Nkechi Nwaogu (First Abia Female Senator and National Assembly member) from Abia Central, and Adolphus Wabara and Enyinnaya Abaribe had had their shots in the senate between 1999 to 2015 representing the three senatorial districts at one time or the other. Between 2015 till date, Senators Mao Ohuabunwa (2015-2019)  Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu (2019 till date), Theodore Orji (2015-2023) and Enyinnaya Abaribe (2007-2023) have been the Senators representing the districts and speaking for the people. While some of them are seeking a return to the senate in 2023, others are eyeing other positions. As the 2023 general elections get nearer, political parties, including the three major political parties in the state; Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, All Progressives Congress APC and All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA, after their party primaries which come up later this year, will be presenting candidates to fly the flags of their parties in the three senatorial districts of the state. The race for the Abia North senate seat got more interesting recently when Senate Chief Whip, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, announced his withdrawal from the presidential race. Kalu said it was practically impossible for a President of Southeast extraction to emerge in Nigeria, except the North willingly precluded itself from the race. He recalled that the South West was able to produce two presidential candidates in the PDP and defunct All Nigerian Peoples Party (ANPP) because there was an understanding to concede the Presidency to the region in 1999. Senator Kalu described as “unjustifiable” and “inordinate,” the presidential aspirants of certain chieftains of the APC and the PDP, outside the Southeast geo-political zone. With that, Kalu is believed to be concentrating on a return to the senate in 2023. Some of the aspirants running for Senate in the state across party lines include; Dr. Senator Orji Uzor Kalu (APC, Abia North) is the Chief Whip of the Senate and a former governor of the state. If there is anywhere in the state that APC has almost conquered, it is Abia North with three federal lawmakers; Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, Nkeiruka Onyejeocha, Deputy Chief Whip House of Representatives, and Hon. Benjamin Kalu, spokesman of the House of Representatives. Kalu, a former member of the federal House of Representatives in the 90’s, is adjudged to have performed creditably well more than his predecessors. He has reportedly turned Abia North into a construction site. The level of love from his people and admirers has made Kalu a big force to win. For political opinion moulders, Kalu’s going back to the Senate is non-negotiable as his people yearn for more developmental strides in their local. They believe that Kalu’s going back to Senate would bring about more democratic dividend in the area. The leadership crisis in his party is however seen as a huge distraction ahead of the elections in the state if not addressed promptly. The Senator, who has not pitched his tent with any of the warring groups, is seen as the best man who can resolve the crisis. Mao Ohuabunwa (PDP Abia North) Ohuabunwa as a sitting lawmaker lost his seat to Orji Kalu in 2019 after what his people tagged as “abysmal” performance within the four years of his representation of the people. Pundits recall that what nailed Ohuabunwa was the allegations that he empowered some of his constituents with frying pan and wheelbarrow. This generated bad blood for the then Senator, among Abia North indigenes who later showed him the exit door at the 2019 polls. Ohuabunwa, who has picked nomination and expression of interest form for the senatorial seat, said he is still counting on the continued support of the people. Claiming that his mandate was stolen in 2019,  Ohuabunwa assured that with the signing of the New Electoral Act into law the era of manipulation of election results was over. He assured that his mandate would never be stolen again.   2023: Newcomers battle old hands for senate seats in Cross…     See Warri and cry: Tale of Oil City’s fall from grace…     Cross-border movements within the global village   Hon. Nkole is the member representing Arochukwu/Ohafia federal constituency. Nkole joined the Abia North Senatorial race after serving out his term in the House of Representatives. While he was able to make some impact on the lives of his people, Nkole is believed not to be the favoured candidate of the PDP for the Abia Senatorial District. Undeterred by insinuations that he is not favoured by the powers that be in his party, the federal legislator has picked his expression of interest and nomination forms to contest for the seat of Abia North District in the 2023 general election. Nkole picked the form last month at the National Headquarters of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, in Abuja. He is one of the earliest politicians from the state to obtain the forms, leaving nobody in doubt of his determination to go all the way in the race. Sources close to him claimed that Nkole has vowed to defeat Ohuabunwa and others at the PDP primary and go ahead to unseat former Abia state governor and Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Kalu, who is the current senator representing Abia North senatorial district. Nkechi Nwaogu is the immediate past pro-chancellor of the University of Calabar (Unical) and the first Abia female Senator and National Assembly member. She represented Abia Central Senatorial District between 2007-2015. Speaking with the All Progressives Congress (APC) members in Umuahia, the state capital on Thursday as she declared her intention to return to the senate in 2023. Sen. Nwaogu promised to re-introduce the gender equality bill rejected by the national assembly. The former pro-chancellor of Unical urged people to put into consideration that 90 percent of the current National Assembly leaders are all old timers in the legislature and said it was the older the better in terms of legislative know how. She said as a ranking Senator who has navigated through the rudiments of the parliament, she stood a better chance than anyone else to attract the much desired democracy dividends to Abia Central. Ahamdi Nweke is an Isiala Ngwa born politician and is rumoured to be contesting on the platform of APGA. Nweke has contested for the same seat in 2015 and 2019 when he lost to Senator Theodore Orji. He says he has all it takes to unseat the former governor. In January, the APGA chieftain reportedly escaped death by the whiskers when he did not fail to the bullets of assassins. According to reports, Nweke was lucky to have escaped without sustaining any gun injury. However, his driver was not that lucky as he sustained serious gunshot injuries. The politician was reported to have been attacked in front of his country home in Isiala Ngwa South Local Government Area of the state by gunmen who had laid siege in front of his home without his knowledge. Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu is the incumbent governor of Abia State who will be serving out his 8 year tenure by 2023. He has not openly stated his intention to run for the Abia South Senatorial District, but his associates have been covertly and overtly campaigning for him. However, the rumour mill has it that he (Ikpeazu) will be replacing Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe who is running for the state governorship race in the senate. While others fear that coming from the same zone with Abaribe would pose a big setback for him, others opined that Ikpeazu will use his power of incumbency to sail through. Few months back, a PDP chieftain, Don Ubani, has alleged plot by the Governor Ikpeazu to hand over power to a non-old Aba successor in exchange for a seat at the Senate in 2023. Ubani accused the governor of colluding with some highly-placed chieftains and leaders of the PDP in the state to jettison the ‘Abia charter of equity’ and marginalise the old Aba division in exchange for the party’s Senatorial ticket. Of course, the governor’s camp has denied the allegations severally. But many are eagerly waiting to see if Ikpeazu will gun for the senate seat.