The Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) has announced a two-week strike following the alleged failure of the Federal Government to meet the demands of the union as contained in the Memorandum of Action signed last year. The union took the decision at an emergency National Executive Council meeting in Abuja on Wednesday. ASUP accused the government of failing to release the agreed N15 billion revitalisation funds and pay arrears of the national minimum wage among others. The union said nine months after the suspension of its industrial action last year and six months after the expiration of the three-month period of suspension, the government was yet to meet some of the demands as contained in the MoA signed before the suspension of the strike. ASUP said during its 102nd meeting in Federal Polytechnic Mubi where it reviewed the report of the implementation of the MoA, the NEC of the union resolved to issue a one- month ultimatum to the government effective 4th April, 2022 to address the outstanding items in the MoA and other emergent issues or face the reality of another trade dispute with them.   BREAKING: Tinubu submits presidential nomination form     One dies during attack on JAMB officials in Lagos hotel     Ekiti AFAN Secretary dies in auto crash   ASUP has joined the Academic Staff Union of Universities, Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions which have gone on strike. The Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU) has also given the government 21- day ultimatum to address its demands. Addressing reporters on Wednesday in Abuja, President of ASUP, Anderson Ezeibe said: “Following exhaustive deliberations, on the update as outlined above, the emergency meeting of the Union’s National Executive Council has resolved that members should withdraw their services in a two weeks industrial action with effect from Monday, 16th of May 2022.” Some of the demands of ASUP are: non release of the approved revitalisation N15bn fund for the sector; Non release of arrears of the new minimum wage; non release of the reviewed normative instruments for institution/management and programs accreditation and sustained infractions in implementation of the provisions of the Federal Polytechnics Act as amended in 2019. Others are: delay in the appointment of rectors; non release of arrears of CONTISS 15 Migration for the Lower Cadre; non release of the scheme of service for Polytechnics; continued Victimisation of Union Officers and continued arm twisting of members in Colleges of Agriculture by the Agricultural Research Council of Nigeria.