Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has announced an increase in the monthly running cost of public primary schools. He, however, did not give a figure to the increment. He announced the increase during the 2022 worker’s day celebration at Onikan Stadium in Lagos Island. The running cost for public secondary schools was increased from N25,000 to N250,000 about two years ago while that of primary schools remained at N20,000. They got a post COVID-19 running fund but their main allowance remained N20,000. Governor Sanwo-Olu thanked the workers for their contributions to the development of the State and urged them to continue to support the government to deliver the dividends of democracy. He said: “Fellow workers, your devotion to work is building the vibrant economy of the state. We need to stay the course. As we enter the election season, we must remember that violence and discord has always been at the expense of the worker. “We have built a good foundation to transform our state and, in the last three years, we have laid the necessary foundation for a rapid upward rise. All we need to do to realise and sustain our dream of a prosperous state is to make our politics devoid of rancour and bitterness. I urge every Lagosians to embrace peace and reject those who make their politics through division and incitement.   Gunmen raze residence of Abia Police Division PCRC chair     May Day: Ondo workers may resume receiving percentage…     Suspcted wanted cultist ‘Paracetamol’ arrested…   State Chairman of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Funmilayo Sessi, thanked the Governor for fulfilling some of the promises made to the workers last year. She, however, begged him to ensure the others are also fulfilled, as well as other needs to be presented before him. “We ask that you help us so we can take physical possession of the land you approved for the union’s workers’ village. We got the allocation letters last year but administrative bottlenecks have hindered the physical possession of the land. “We also ask that you approve the 65 years retirement age for teachers, as already approved by the Federal Government. “Mr governor sir, we humbly ask that the monthly running cost/imprest for public primary schools be increased from the current N20,000, and also a restoration of the allowance for science teachers and those serving in riverine communities.” Sessi added that the workers’ endorse Sanwo-Olu for a second term because he has performed beyond expectation. “We endorse you for a second term because you have done well. You did not sack us during the pandemic, you instead employed more workers, and even gave us palliatives. ” You have been so good to us so we endorse you for a second term, we will vote you again to say thank you,” she added.