The Committee of Vice-Chancellors of Nigerian (CVCNU) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with universities in the United Kingdom on exchange programmes that would benefit both countries. The organisation explained that the agreement would be beneficial to the Nigerian university system as it would take care of the issue of cost for Nigerians to study abroad. Chairman of CVCNU Prof. Samuel Edoumiekumo stated these  in Abuja during the signing of the MoU, with a High Powered University UK International Team (UUKI). The team had previously visited the National Universities Commission (NUC) to sign an MoU to deepen relationships with Nigerian universities on digital education. Speaking after the signing, Edoumiekumo said the Nigerian universities would be willing to explore the beneficial relationships. According to him, the coming of these  organisations would further deepen relationships on exchange programmes that would boost the country’s transnational education. He said: “NUS will greatly benefit from the partnership as the issue of cost to study abroad will be taken care of. “With this relationship, you can be in Nigeria and receive the kind of quality education you will want to get when you travel to the UK. “As a country, we also want to have joint degree programmes with universities in the U.K. This will help boost the quality of education in the country.” He assured that the NUS would implement the MoU to the letter that would translate to development in every sector of the country’s economy.   APC presidential primary and scramble for delegates     Volleyball: Dare challenges  federation on grassroots  dev’t     Udom: I’ll foster good governance   Edoumiekumo added that the General Assembly of the committee had planned to train 500 Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) and Masters of Science (M.Sc) that would drive research for the country. He also emphasised on the need to collaborate on training women and having them in the decision making process of the university system. Edoumiekumo said that the committee had supported the universities by providing platforms for sharing experiences, saying that one of the platforms was the development of a home-grown plagiarism software called the eagle scan. He, therefore, welcomed the collaboration, noting that it would facilitate the exchange of staff and learning support. The Team Leader, University of UK International, Prof. Steve Smith said the team was overwhelmed by the positive attitude of the Federal Government in embracing the collaboration. He said: “Nigeria is one of the five countries the UK has asked to focus on. We want to form a long lasting sustainable partnership. “We want to look at a way we can work with universities in Nigeria and partner on transnational education without having to pay to the UK.” “So, to be successful in the system, you have to be internationally inclined in research which is what we will do in our exchange programmes.” Director of UUKI, Vivienne Stern said the MoU would serve as a deeper structure on how to explore the discussion on challenges of the NUS in the area of teaching staff and training of students that would be of benefit to the two countries. According to her, the pandemic had posed a great challenge to countries around the world saying that with the collaboration, there would be transformation in the area of teaching and this would be achieved through a systematic engagement with university’s leaders. In his remarks, Vice – Chancellor, University of Abuja, Prof. Abdulrasheed Na’Allah, said that the university leaders were well prepared to key into the initiative the collaboration would bring.