Beyond trading, cryptocurrency and blockchain technology offers vistas of opportunities Nigerians can take advantage of to better their lives, an expert, has said. The expert, Rume Ophi, stated this in an interview in Lagos. Ophi, the founder of CryptoPreacher Blockchain Academy (CPA), said career prospects as well as business opportunities beyond HODLing and other trading in cryptocurrency, were springing up across world that Nigerians, especially the youth, could take advantage of. Ophi, who is also the co-founder of ThinkCrypto Club, Washington DC United States, explained: “Many a times, people say that they are interested in cryptocurrency and want to make money from it. All they want to learn is how to trade with it. To be fair, I can’t blame them because some years ago when I began my career in the cryptocurrency space, my only focus then was on trading, Holing and buying as many digital assets as I could discern. “That was years ago. But today, many career paths are in high demand in the crypto market. Rising demand for cryptocurrency has made this space a hot cake. And despite the ban on cryptocurrency trading in Nigeria, there are various career opportunities in this market. As the demand for cryptocurrency increases, so too, does the number of cryptocurrency jobs. “Legacy companies continue to embrace cryptocurrencies, which means those organisations will need more experts in the field. Many of these companies are open to working from home from any part of the world. Many thanks to COVID-19, Nigerians can take advantage of this. These companies, which include Apple, Amazon and PayPal, are looking for people to get cryptocurrency jobs. For example, Walmart is looking to hire a cryptocurrency expert to lead its digital currency strategy,” he said.   Money laundering: CBN tightens control on MfBs, others     Sterling Bank, optometrists sign MoU on funding     Facilitating Fed Govt’s mass metering project with e-payment   Noting the opportunities in blockchain, Ophi, who is the Premium Ambassador, Newscrypto, asked: “Can you believe that blockchain expertise is the fastest-growing skill according to the latest skills index and is one of the hottest in the United States’ job market? “The demand for people with blockchain skills is high. Due to its many fields of application, it is looking to hire those who have the skills set to navigate this new technology. Nigerians can earn a desirable income from blockchain technology through mining, collaborating with cryptocurrency companies, or faucets. “Nigerians can also make money by operating cryptocurrency master nodes and earning while playing games. The blockchain industry is lucrative and earning a decent income is a step to living your best life. Now you know the easiest ways to make money with blockchain technology, it’s time to explore the industry.” Ophi, who is the Head of Mobilisation for stakeholders in Blockchain Technology Association of Nigeria (Siban) Presidential Task Force (PTF), also explored some opportunities in the world of non-fungible tokens (NFTs). “This is a very popular concept, which is making waves in the crypto world. It has been created with the aim of protecting the intellectual properties of many artists and players in the creative arts space. The NFTs have skyrocketed in market value over the past year. Specifically, in 2021, users sent at least $44.2 billion worth of cryptocurrency to ERC-721 and ERC-1155 contracts, the two types of Ethereum smart contracts associated with NFT marketplaces and collections, according to Chainalysis. “Of course, over here, the story of the Nigerian Corps Member who sold his painting of a drummer and a video of him giving the aged entertainer his share of the proceeds is a very good example that comes to mind. You too can look for good NFT projects, if you feel you want to get into them. I think one example of an NFT that performs well on the market is the Bored Ape Yacht Club. So, imagine you got in very early when it was like USD 0.08, you would be telling another story today. “Beyond these opportunities, I tell my students that Nigeria needs crypto analysts, people who study in-depth and predict the value, demands, patterns, and exchanging volumes of explicit digital forms of money and the whole crypto market.”