From the windows of my bedroom on the first floor of a house bordered by three roads, I distinctly hear private conversations going on on the street. At six in the morning, I am woken up by steel rollers of a factory gate in a residential house screeching against tight steel runners. At first, I thought motorists were not familiar with the road and were desperately trying to not plunge into a crevice where the road makes a 90 degrees left turn. I had cause to worry over those screeches because, about two years ago, a motorist ploughed into the fence of my residence after running over the open drainage and kerb stones beside it. The impact sounded like the sound of a blast. But the fence stood its ground with little few cracks here and there. This was a benefit of making the fence not with hollow but solid bricks which combined granite dust, sharp sand and cement, one bag of which produced not 30 bricks ,but 15. I noticed, amid it all, that there had recently come around professional drivers who either came early in the morning to take their bosses to work, or brought them back in the evenings. These men are not like the courier man who lives opposite my house and regularly picks things to dispatch for me or brings to me whatever other persons are sending to me. I know him as Bog Logistics Emmanuel (08134914838). He neither hoots nor knocks, let alone bang on my gate. Rather, he telephones me from the gate. He is an amazing world of difference from these drivers. They park on the road, hooting for minutes on end until their masters had boarded in the mornings or until the gates had been opened in the evenings. They are probably Christians or Moslems who had heard of the commandment Thou Shall  Not Steal. Are they aware they are stealing someone’s right to peace of mind? I always wonder. What if there was an insomniac around who hardly slept all night, who was just managing to catch 10 minutes sleep? What if there was a nursing mother around who didn’t sleep all night because her baby wouldn’t sleep but who was just about to fall asleep because she had just luckily got the baby to sleep? What of persons who rely on the calm of the night to do creative work and require dawn and early morning sleep to compensate their bodies and their health for the vicissitudes of night? I believe it is for those and more people, in fact because of all of us, both the noise maker and the noise consumer, that the World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared April 26 every year a No Horns Day. Actually, this article was originally intended for publication on or around 2022 No Horns Day. I do not know if on board a Nigerian passenger bus, you have ever paid attention to someone several seats ahead of you making a phone call. He may be talking so loudly that his voice will drown the sound of the bus engine. People who speak like that  are probably going deaf without realising it. They shout because they do not hear their voices. Only when they do they believe other people are hearing them. They do not realise that they are shouting! WHO knows about such persons and us, their defenceless victims. To protect them against themselves and to protect us from their nuisance, March 3 of every year is celebrated worldwide as World Hearing Day. This event complements the world’s campaign against environmental noise pollution, in which even motorists are encouraged to observe a No Horns Day on April 26.   Noise poisoning    Unknown to many Nigerians, some type of noise can damage the cells in the inner ear and cause hearing loss or deafness. Shouting before one can hear oneself is as much a sign of hearing loss as it is of a large thunderous sound to hear. This is why sound levels are regulated in noise and hearing conscious societies. Internationally, sound is measured with a sound meter for this purpose. In Lagos, Nigeria, a very noisy city, the approved noise levels are Expensive and big electricity generators produce between 60 and 90 decibels of sound , but smaller, smoky ones overdue for servicing produce much more. You can, therefore, imagine an environment where many small, smoky and noisy electricity generators are running at the same time. I do not like to be a difficult neighbour to my neighbours but, once or twice, I had to invite one of them to my sitting room. His generator was at the back of his house which was adjacent to my sitting room. He was shocked to discover that, inadvertently, he had been pumping noise and smoke on my household. He apologised and relocated the generator. In the opposite house, a woman in the top flat was nasty. She put her generator right beside the ground floor bedroom of a medical doctor whose wife had just had a baby. I intervened, as an elder, in their quarrels to no avail. When the doctor got tired of complaining, he stopped the generator one night, opened the petrol tank and filled it with table salt. The engine knocked. The woman called the police who detained the doctor overnight for wilful damage to property. When the doctor came out of detention, he reported the disturbance to the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency which promptly visited the property and sanctioned the woman. Many people who live in face-to-face room apartments experience worse circumstances. Electricity generators may run in the common corridors piling the rooms with noise, smoke and petrol fumes. The machines may mount in the compounds. Music may be played at the highest pitches. At outdoor parties, some people sit near the band stands or the massive loudspeakers. Agege Pen Cinema, like Oshodi motor park and Iyana-Ipaja, for example, are noise disaster areas in Lagos that LASEPA may never be able to control. It may shock many people who carelessly blare car horns that typical car horns may hit between 106 and 109 decibels. This is more than double the permissible level in residential areas during the day or night. In 2020, LASEPA received 4,700 complaints. About half of them were against noise making by churches and mosques. Twenty percent came from religious events in buildings and other enclosures not officially registered for religious activities. The remainder came from other sources. These included open air parties, business houses, and shops, which announce their businesses with loud music and, among others, motor parks which rely on loudspeakers to announce bus routes.   Noise damage Noise causes not only the likelihood of hearing loss or deafness. It may also cause hypertension, insomnia and depression. That is why soldiers on a battlefield may suffer several types of damage to their health long after a war, and dwellers in the approaches of aircraft landing or take off need to be doubly concerned about their health. In noisy Lagos, a long track of rail line runs only a child’s stone throw from residential houses. In a residential estate I am familiar with, a boarding secondary school disturbs all day with drumming and microphone noise. According to www.cdc. gov: “Loud noise can damage cells and membranes in the cochlea. Listening to loud music can overwork hair cells in the ear, which can cause these cells to die. The hearing loss progresses as long as the exposure continues. Harmful effects might continue even after noise exposure has stopped.” Nigerians account for more than 8.5 million sufferers of hearing loss in a 466 million global population, according to Professor Julius Ademokoya, president of the Speech Pathologist and Audiologists Association in Nigeria (SPAAN) in 2020.   How we hear How we hear is an interesting process. Many of us know of the ear and nothing else. The ear is the external end of the hearing process. It gathers sound waves from the environment and channels them through a narrow passage called the ear canal because ear wax sometimes fills it up in an attempt by the immune system to trap dust, germs and other substances which may cause trouble(s) for the delicate inner tissues of the hearing system. The sound waves channeled by the outer ear through this narrow tube are received at the inner end of the tube by the ear drum. This is a delicate tissue which may be perforated by pressure and other impacts, causing deafness. The vibrations of the ear drum impact the first of three small bones in the inner ear. The three small bones are called Hammer (also called malleus, incus and stapes). Hammer is the outermost of the three, incus, the middle one and stapes, the innermost which connects the middle ear to the inner ear. Each of these tiny bones pass on the vibrations they have received from the ear drum. In other words, it can be said that the hammer vibrates against the incus and the incus vibrates against the stapes. It is like baton changing hands in a relay race. Thus, the effectiveness and efficiency of these bones, through diet and hygeine and, of course, the right amount of sound pressure impacted on them is important for their fidelity of communication and premium hearing capacity.     Does coconut oil offer promise of glaucoma cure?     Venous insufficiency: tired, heavy, swollen, dying legs (2)     Venous insufficiency: tired, heavy, swollen, dying legs (1)   Inner ear The bony stapes stands on the outer boundary of the middle ear towards the inner ear, vibrating into the innermost section of the ear divided into three sections. These divisions are the vestibule, the three semi-circular canals and the cochlea. The vestibule, among other functions, is responsible for the body’s state of physical balance. The three sem-circular canals are fluid filled. Their fluids move hither and thither in response to the body’s physical movements, to keep balance. In the cochlea, amplified sound vibrations from the middle ear are received and converted into nerve impulses which the auditory nerves take to the brain for interpretation. About 25,000 nerve endings are believed to be involved in the process. In the cochlea are hair like projections which help in the sound transmission. It is believed that every new born has 12,000 hearing cells. These may be damaged or lost during earth life by loud noises or other inhospitable circumstances. They are irreplaceable; noise induced hearing loss affects many professionals— carpenters , miners, oil explorers, heavy duty construction workers and, none the least, soldiers. Many Gulf War soldiers suffered hearing loss. Back home in Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari exhibits hearing loss symptoms from the Nigerian Civil War. Uncharitably, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar sought to exploit this in calling for a television debate with the President during their 2019 presidential election campaign. Some of the early signs of hearing loss may be ringing in the ear, buzzing sounds in the ear, inability to hear high pitch sounds such as the singing of birds or hooting of automobiles, fullness or pressure in the ear, exposure to noisy music. Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) may be instant or gradual, depending on if the exposure is one off or continual.   Remedies    Hearing is more about nerves than anything less. Thus, nerve nutrition and antioxidant defence against free radicals should be the cornerstone of daily care of the sense of hearing. I have sighted some proprietary formulas in the Nigerian market which may be of help. One of them is Hearing Health by Bell and the other is Neuro Booster by Shineway. Yet another is neurocell plus. There are others still that are not nerve specific by name but which nevertheless should favourably impact on the nervous system. In their ranks are such nutritives as Complete Phyto Energiser by Aim Global and from the same stable as well, C 247, an anti-aging formula designed to literally hold the hands of the clock or turn it backwards. Of hearing health, the product literature says: “An innovative combination of vitamins, minerals, herbs and bioflavonoids…may help maintain and support healthy hearing, attempts to relieve symptoms of Tinutus, rich in anti-oxidants for projection of your hearing, possibly halts damage from free radicals”. The ingredients include “marjoram extract, citrus bioflavonoids, magnesium, parsley extract, potassium, NAD, zinc, vitamin B-12, folic acid (as in folliate) and vitamin D3.” Neuro Booster from Shineway is, understandably, targeted at the brain, orign of the nerves. I added it to my shopping list for glaucoma after I read Joe Lovett’s report that he cleared his own glaucoma using coconut oil to stimulate brain derived neurotrophic factors (BDNFs). Referring to new studies which he said linked glaucoma to denaturing of brain cells which control the eyes, he said BDNFs must have cleared his brain discomfeitures to clear his glaucoma. This protection and strengthening of brain nerves is important for the health of nerves throughout the body. The nerve which makes hearing possible is called the Auditory Nerve. It arises from a complex web of nerves in the cochlea, located in the  inner ear, links up with the central nervous system (CNS) and eventually terminates in the neurons of the back brain in a location known as the “junction of the medulla and the pons”. What has Neuro Booster to offer against hearing loss? It’s literature speaks of four ingredients…Alpha Lipoic Acid, Acetyl N Carnitine, Co enzyme Q 10 and naturally-fermented ubiquinone. Neuro cell plus is another nerve health formula. It is put up as a stem cell formula and parades some important B complex vitamins. Some of them are methyl cobalamin, vitamin B6 (pyridoxine), Niacinamide D panthenol. Methyl cobalamine produces vitamin B12. A deficiency of this vitamin may cause blood cells to develop into abnormally large shapes and cause megaloblastic anaemia. In sufficient amounts in the body, methylcobalamine may not only help to dissolve megaloblastic anaemia but address certain nerve problems as wel. Pyridoxine helps in the regulation of water balance. Dr. Shari Liberman, author of The Real Vitamin And Mineral Book, speaks eloquently of pyridoxine as not only important for formation of about 60 enzyme reactions, but for the making of melatonin in the brain. The association of pyridoxine to these neurotransmitters explains how important it could be to the nervous system. In fact, Liberman recommends it for such conditions such as depression, schizophrenia, especially when psychotropic drugs fail or cause toxicity. Liberman suggests, as well, that some childhood epileptic-like convulsions and some autistic children respond favourably to pyridoxine supplementation. Niacinamide relates with Niacin or Nicotinic Acid, the blood circulation promoting and cholesterol lowering vitamin B3. This vitamin is reported to exert beneficial influences on the nervous system. Pantheno is a derivative of pantothenic acid or vitamin B5, the growth and stress hormone.   Other remedies    Bryophilium pinnatum is arguably Nigeria’s most popular solution for ear problems. The popular name of this plant is Miracle  Plant or Everlasting Plant. The Yoruba call it Abamoda(d:m:r:m). A leaf is taken from the plant, disinfected in saline solution or cider vinegar solution, placed on the cover of a cooking pot over a burning stove and, when tenderised by the heat, is squeezed to expel water which is gently eased in drops into an aching ear. This plant has other uses which space cannot permit me to mention here. In the book Natural Health Secrets From Around The  World, edited by Glenn W Geel Hoed M.D, and Jean Barillams, we learn of the use of ear drops from the oil of such plants as almond, echinacea, garlic, onion, mugwort, penny wort, and peppermint. Hearing loss is better averted than treated, as delicate organs and nerves may have been irreparably damaged before the problem is detected. For example, some ear specialists suggest linkages between heart and artery damage and high cholesterol damage of the hearing system. Such signals ae Tinitus or ringing in the ear may be cleared up with blood circulatory herbs such as gingko biloba, cayenne, black pepper, gotukola and in the proprietary bracket, Vida Max and ISK clear, among others. When all seems to fail, cochlear implants help better than hearing aids, according to scientific reports.