The Ekiti State Government has declared the purported installation of one Stephen Ajayi as the Obanla of Ipao Ekiti on Ikole Local Government as illegal, null and void. Deputy Governor Bisi Egbeyemi said the installation was carried out contrary to the existing laws governing the nomination, selection and installation of Obas in the State. According to a statement by his Special Assistant (Media), Odunayo Ogunmola, the Deputy Governor stressed since the purported installation is against the Ekiti State Chiefs Law, it is null and void and of no effect whatsoever. The Deputy Governor said the full wrath of the law would be visited on those who performed the installation and the candidate who submitted himself for the exercise contrary to the provisions of the Ekiti State Chiefs Law. Egbeyemi noted that the illegal installation of Ajayi as the Obanla of Ipao Ekiti was carried out on the 12th of November, 2021 and again on the 18th May, 2022 making it the second time such an action was performed without the knowledge, consent and the permission of the state government.   Yobe teenage girl secures N200 million judgement against…     Hoodlums kill commercial motorcyclist in Bayelsa     Sit-at-home grounds residents, commercial activities in Imo   The Deputy Governor emphasised that the law will take care of the situation to prevent breakdown of law and order that the purported installation could wreak on Ipao Ekiti. He pointed out that the Ekiti State Chiefs Law frowns at the installation of an Oba without due process and the authority of the state government. According to him, the law stipulated punishment for anybody who installs an Oba without the authority of the state government and anybody who submits himself to be made an Oba illegally. Otunba Egbeyemi said: “The purported installation is clearly against the Ekiti State Chiefs Law and because it is against the law, it is illegal, null and void and of no effect whatsoever. “It is no longer business as usual, the law will take care of the situation. All those involved in illegal installation in Ipao Ekiti will have their date with the law. “This government was put in place to uphold the law and it will not watch and allow some individuals to violate the law and throw any part of the state into chaos.”