Manufacturers of automotive parts have canvassed more investment into the industry in Nigeria insisting that the setting up of production and assembly plans will accelerate the growth of the country’s huge market. They said birthing more automotive parts in Nigeria will not only expand the industry but position Nigeria as a big player on the Continent’s automotive manufacturing sector in the production of trucks, passenger cars and motorcycles  as well as other components including filters, spark plugs, tyres, batteries , lubricants and allied products. Speaking in an interview with The Nation at the sidelines of the West Africa Automotive Show (WAAS), in Lagos, Managing Director of B to B Events and organiser of the exhibition, Mr Jamie Hill, said additional investment into the automotive sector in Nigeria by local and foreigner companies will create a huge pool for the country in the value chain. Hill said Nigeria remains a huge market in the automotive industry in Africa  that could not be ignored because of its huge population and market size. Leveraging participation in exhibitions, Hill said many companies could utilize the window to connect with global players to extract market information and technology transfer in the global  automotive value chain. With over 70 exhibitors, manufacturers and other players from  Asia, Europe, United States, Middle East and Africa participated in the show, Hill affirmed that such opportunities create avenues for business networking , growth and expansion.   Customs set to introduce unified charges for vehicles     Health insurance now mandatory as Buhari signs new law     Wike and workers   He said the COVID-19 Pandemic is having a negative impact on the automotive industry following the slow rebound of business in manufacturing hubs like China , which is still under lockdown. He said the aftermath of COVID-19 Pandemic has altered the global logistic chain , disrupting travel schedules, that some people are finding it difficult to move from some geographical locations to the others on account of restrictions, lockdowns and other measures put in place to curb further spread of the pandemic. Hill said : “ Shipping and freight is increasingly becoming more challenging. This is why we are calling for more investment into Nigeria to deepen the growth of the automotive parts industry. which is a huge market. The more companies invest in the Nigerian automotive industry, the business will grow. That is part of the benefits of this exhibition, which serves as a platform to connect people, business , facilitate the setting up of industries as well as secure local partnership.” Also speaking, Chief Operating Officer, Reem Batteries & Power Appliances Corporation, Sanjeev Arvind Khapre said there is strong demand for automotive vehicles propelling several domestic and foreign original equipment manufacturers to expand their production bases in Nigeria. He said : “ The government of Nigeria also prioritizes the automotive segment as a key revenue generator and is encouraging the flow of foreign direct investment  in the automotive industry. New players continue to foray into the market.” The Nigerian automotive parts market is the second largest market in Sub-Saharan Africa in terms of imports. In 2018, service parts such as filters and spark plugs accounted for the largest value in the automotive parts market in Nigeria, with 45 percent of the total market value. Wear parts, which include brake pads, discs, wiper blades, shock absorbers, and similar held 35 percent of the share. The African automotive market last year was valued at $30.44 billion. It is expected to reach 42.66 billion by 2027.