A pro-Biafra group, Biafra Provisional Government (BPG) has warned the members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and all their splinter groups that their violent sit-at-home orders and attacks on public utilities and institutions are seriously affecting the progress so far made in restoring the State of Biafra. In a statement issued in Enugu on Wednesday to mark Biafra history month of May 2022, the spokesman of the BPG, Chile Nwoko lamented that heinous crimes such as kidnappings, arson, murder, rape, cannibalism, and all sorts of evil activities all in the name of Biafra agitation, had effectively erased the positive progress made to attract the attention of the world to the plight of the Igbo in Nigeria. “It is no more news that such actions are destroying the social and economic activities in the southeast and subsequently impoverishing the masses of the Southeast. Unfortunately, many of such victims are living in denial. “The Biafra Provisional Government does not support these, and does not recognise such groups. The BPG hereby reminds such groups that the Biafra restoration project is neither an activity for school cultism nor for gangsterism. It is a project carried out with zeal, proper articulation, execution, and not media propaganda,” he said. According to him, “With the rising insecurity in the Southeast part of Biafra land, the Provisional Government is handicapped in securing the lives and properties of the indigenes and residents in the area as Biafra territories are still under occupation.   Ezemba is chairman of open heart centre     Ikpeazu opens model schools, digital teaching programme     Usani joins PRP   “The Biafran people should know that the BPG is working assiduously in Biafra’s sovereignty restoration.” Nwoko advised all pro-Biafra groups to avoid violence because, according to him, “an enemy can lead his opponent into self-destruct, which actually is what is going on in the Southeast.” He reminded them that in peace time, a lot can be achieved. “The Biafra Provisional Government got the sympathy of Americans, prompting the production of the movie titled ‘Tears of A Yellow Sun’, a movie on Biafra. Nobody was killed to attract such recognition, and no properties were destroyed.” The spokesman explained that the ‘Holy month of May’ is used to pray for the restoration of Biafrans.