Those familiar with Southeast terrain must have been jolted when the leadership of cattle breeders alleged the rustling of 300 cows and kidnap of 10 herders in the Ogbaru Local Government Area of Anambra State. The story re-enacted sad memories of the Chibok, Kankara and Kagara incidents where hundreds of students were abducted from their hostels and hurled into thick forests without any trace? The only difference being cows were more involved than humans. Could this be possible in that region given its terrain? Even if it was possible to kidnap 10 herders and keep them out of public view, it appeared a remote possibility that 300 cows could just disappear in such environment without being traced in few hours. Such was the feeling when Southeast chairman of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria MACBAN, Gidado Siddiki alleged the abduction of 10 herders and rustling of 300 cows by gunmen. He had also alleged the gunmen established contacts demanding N4million ransom and one gun from the families of the victims. But Anambra State Police Command in a statement titled: “Update on the alleged gunmen attack on herders in Anambra State, kidnap of 10 and rustling of 300 cows”, said “on April 24, some of the victims were seen in the bush unharmed while one of the victims is still missing”. They also discovered some of the livestock in the bush even as they are intensifying efforts to locate the herder and livestock still missing. The police promised further update on the matter. But as the update was being awaited, chairman of the Ogbaru Local Government Area, Arinzechukwu Awogu faulted the kidnap report when he said no herder was kidnapped neither were cows rustled in the area. The council boss described such reports as misleading even as he admitted there was a misunderstanding between farmers and herders which made the herders to flee the area for safety only to return to recover their cows when calm returned. Awogu who said he was personally involved with the leadership of MACBAN in returning normalcy to the area wondered why a case of abduction and cattle rustling would be peddled by Siddiki. One may have ignored this story given that cattle rustling and kidnapping have become a regular occurrence in this country for which the law enforcement agencies are yet to find an appropriate handle. But that would amount to naivety of the most extreme hue. Not with the intervention of the Ogbaru council chairman repudiating claims of the abduction and rustling. Not also with the tepid explanations offered by the police on the incident. There are weighty issues in the accounts of Siddiki and the police that should be interrogated further especially in view of the new angle offered by Awogu. He did not only fault the kidnap and rustling allegation but also revealed the efforts he made with some MACBAN leaders to resolve the disagreement such that, by 11.30pm on the fateful day, calm had been restored as all the cows rejoined their herders.   National census in war time?     Some mothers do have ’em     2023 and the politics of PVCs   And since he spoke nothing has come either from MACBAN or the police to the contrary. It is also instructive the police said they saw the herders and some of the cows on April 24, a day after the incident unharmed. There are issues thrown up by the police account and the allegation by MACBAN that can only be ignored at a great risk especially given the nature of the allegation in contention. Police account of the incident appeared to have created more doubts than it set out to resolve. The disagreement took place on Saturday and resolved that same day. The police saw some of the victims and cows in the bush on Sunday unharmed. One herder was missing. In a grave allegation of this nature, one had expected the police to have come clear on the number of herders they saw in the bush, their conditions and that of the cows. They should have come clear on whether it was a case of kidnapping and cattle rustling as alleged but they preferred to prevaricate. The public deserves to know whether the bush the herders and cows were located by the police was the exact place of the disagreement or the dens of the alleged kidnappers. They should have come clear on whether the evidence they saw bore semblance with the allegations peddled by MACBAN or the account of the Ogbaru council boss. Surprisingly, they left those aspects of their investigation hanging. But a cursory view of the title of police statement spoke of “alleged gunmen attack on herders…” My reading of this is that the police did not believe the allegation of an attack, kidnap and cattle rustling. Knowing that institution for what it is, they would not have had any difficulty reporting such if there was evidence to that effect. Even then, the report that they saw the herders and the cows in the bush except one missing herder does not confer the kind of fatality the allegation of Siddiki conveyed. Neither did we see any evidence of the demand of N4million ransom and one gun each from the alleged victims. So from where did the MACBAN leadership get the story of the money and gun ransom? And how come MACBAN went ahead to raise such an alarm when its leadership was involved in the resolution of the disagreement? How come? These searing posers are at the centre of the feeling that there is more to the MACBAN conduct than ordinarily meets the eyes. Not unexpectedly, this has given rise to speculations that the allegation could be a subterfuge for an impending attack on the community by killer herdsmen. Nobody should dismiss this dimension. Not with experiences in parts of the country. It was good the police and the military swung into quick action in a bid to rescue the cows and the herders. Had this dexterity and quick response been demonstrated in protecting innocent citizens from attacks by killer herdsmen/bandits, that phenomenon would have by now been history. Security agencies should sustain this momentum to put a lie to insinuations that they responded the way they did because cows and herders were involved.