The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Rivers State Command, has intensified its war against economic sabotage bursting activities of a syndicate, which developed an illegal route to divert fuel to neighbouring countries. The command also assumed custody of 17 suspected oil thieves and six wooden boats arrested by the Nigerian Navy along the waterways in an ongoing onslaught against oil thieves in Rivers. The State Commandant, NSCDC, Abu Abdu Tambuwal, in a statement signed on Friday by the command’s Public Relations Officer, Deputy Superintendent Olufemi Ayodele, said the feat was made possible through sustained intelligence. He explained that the group of illegal oil dealers was transporting petroleum products through border states to neighbouring countries. He said the command’s anti-vandal border patrol team swung into action and effected the arrests of Nwachi from Umunna road Afikpo North, Ebonyi State and Chukwudi from Okwuonu street Aba, Abia State. Tambuwal said: “Credible and sustained Intelligence revealed that some oil dealers were diverting petroleum products via states sharing borders with Rivers State and thereafter channel the products to neighbouring countries.   Ikpeazu threatens legal action against PDP guber aspirant     46 suspects arrested with firearms, others      Explosion claims one life at Addax Petroleum Izombe…   “The anti-vandal border patrol team swung into action and impounded a blue and white colour 50,000 litres capacity truck with registration number Abia EZA 850 YF  conveying  Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) popularly called Petrol. “From the statements volunteered under caution by the suspects, we gathered that the truck in question took off from Conoil Depot at Ibeto road in Port Harcourt where the product was claimed to have been loaded. “They further maneuvered to the border between Rivers and Imo State where they were arrested. Meanwhile, preliminary investigation report showed that the product’s waybill stated that the product should be delivered at Omo Wealth in Ikwerre Local Government, Port Harcourt. “The suspects further claimed that there was a mistake while writing the waybill and that they decided to take the product to Imo State.” Tambuwal decried the defiant behaviour of individuals dealing illegally on petroleum products and sabotaging the nation’s economy saying they were contravening the Miscellaneous Offences Act, 2004 Laws of the Federation, the Anti-Sabotage Act, the Petroleum Act and its regulation. He said in line with the dictates of the Harmonised Standard Operating Procedures (HSOP) on arrests, detention and prosecution of vessels and persons in Nigeria’s maritime environment, 17 suspects and six wooden boats were handed over to the NSCDC  by the Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) Pathfinder n Port Harcourt. “Investigation is currently ongoing and at its expiration, the suspects would definitely be charged to court accordingly.  It is quite despicable that in spite the fact that the government is committed to preventing fuel scarcity some economic saboteurs are busy diverting the product in order to suffer Nigerians.”