The management of Beer Barn, a leisure facility in the Lekki area of Lagos, around which a sound engineer, David Sunday Imo, was lynched on 12 May by a mob, has said it made efforts to save him. Imo and his band provided music for Beer Barn. In a statement yesterday, the facility said they were told by three naval officials, when trouble broke out, that they were trying to resolve a dispute involving Imo, his colleague and an okada mob, which eventually killed Imo. The leisure hub’s management said the first hint of trouble was a commotion at the entrance and was marked by the mob trying to force its way inside. “We requested to know what the issue was and members of the mob replied that somebody from our facility had used a charm to hit one of its members, who was presumed dead. “While we were engaging the mob, David, who was alleged to have used the charm, came out of our facility and was forcibly taken away from our premises by the mob, which insisted he was a Yahoo boy (internet fraudster) trying to use the victim for a money ritual. “Our internal security men couldn’t stop them in spite of their best efforts,” the statement said. It added that outside, four members of the band, including its founder, were locked in a car surrounded by the angry motorcyclists, who were being engaged by the three naval officers. However, the management said when it observed that the military men were not making progress it called the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) of the Police. “The RRS team arrived but said the crowd was too big for them to control. At the time of their arrival, nobody had died. The victim of the altercation with the band boy had also regained consciousness,” Beer Barn said in the statement.   Three remanded over Owa Obokun’s palace theft     Gunman arrested at Obasanjo Farms     Kebbi ASUP begins warning strike   In desperation, Beer Barn added, it called the Divisional Police Officer of Maroko Police Station, but his team did not arrive before Imo was killed by the mob. Imo’s widow, Grace, has urged the Lagos State government to ensure justice is served. She also called for welfare and support for her two kids. She debunked allegations that her late husband was a ritualist or Yahoo boy, describing him as a kind-hearted man, who always wanted to help people. Grace said her husband was stabbed to death by motorcyclists over N100 change. “All we need is justice for David. If justice is not done, many persons may be victims too, many of these motorcyclists have daggers with them. The state government should also provide welfare for the kids; they are currently helpless,” she said. The Lagos State Government said four suspects are at the State Criminal Investigation Department (CID), Panti in connection with the incident. Also, two survivors are in hospital, it was said. “The Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, has spoken with the family of the victim, Mr. David Sunday. He sends the condolences of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and assures them that justice will be done in this matter. The government will address the root cause of this and similar incidents, which have caused public anxiety,” a statement said yesterday. The government also urged residents to remain calm as police investigate the matter.