THERE was confusion in the 18 local government areas of Edo State as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leaders held parallel House of Assembly and House of Representatives primaries, which were monitored by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials. The parallel primaries resulted from the supremacy battle between Governor Godwin Obaseki and the PDP National Vice Chairman, Southsouth, Chief Dan Orbih, a former Edo PDP Chairman, who is an ally of Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike. Winners from Obaseki and Orbih’s factions called for unity and peace ahead of the 2023 polls, with the primary elections of both factions having security operatives in attendance to prevent the breakdown of law and order. Our reporter observed that Orbih’s faction had ballot papers with PDP’s logo on them. Obaseki’s faction recorded the votes on pieces of paper. An associate of Orbih, who craved anonymity, said the governor’s faction might face litigation. A former member of Edo House of Assembly, Mr. Blessing Agbebaku, emerged winner to represent Owan West in the Assembly, as he was declared winner by the electoral officer, Bashir Ekeinde, with 34 votes. In the other primary for Owan West Assembly, the INEC’s representative, Don Itukudo, declared Frank Unuigboje winner, scoring 32 votes to defect his opponent, Ilakhe Izirein, who polled two. A former Edo Commissioner for Education, Jimoh Ijegbai, who won PDP’s ticket for Owan federal constituency, declared that the party in the Southsouth state remained one big family.   Elumelu, Abia Speaker win primaries     Peaceful, consensus primaries in Jigawa     Delay trails primaries in Plateau   In Oredo Local Council, Benin, with two constituency seats in the House of Assembly, Dr. Aisosa Amadasun emerged as the candidate for Oredo West and Uyi Omosigho was the winner for Oredo East. The only House of Representatives’ seat was won by Sunny Aguebor. In Egor constituency, Henry Okhuarobo elected as the House of Assembly candidate. Osawaru won in Ikpoba-Okha constituency. Jude Ise-Idehen emerged victorious for Egor/Ikpoba-Okha federal constituency. The Speaker of Edo House of Assembly, Marcus Onobun, won as the candidate for Esan West/Esan Central/Igueben federal constituency. A former Speaker, Kabiru Adjoto, was the winner for Akoko-Edo federal constituency. An ex-Deputy Speaker of the state’s Assembly, Yekini Idaiye and the incumbent Commissioner for Community and Chieftaincy Affairs, Donald Okogbe, won as candidates for Akoko-Edo constituencies I and II. Commissioner for Communication and Orientation, Andrew Emwanta, denied knowledge of parallel primaries in the state, especially in his Egor local council. Orbih GSM’s line was not available at press time when The Nation tried to contact him to get his reaction. An ally of his, who spoke in confidence through the phone, described Obaseki and his associates as jokers, declaring that the national leadership of PDP and the courts would take the final decisions on the “illegal” parallel primaries by the governor’s faction.