Super Eagles Goalkeeper John Noble Barinyima recently quit bachelorhood when he married his long-time heartthrob in Gokana, Rivers State. The Enyimba of Aba star spoke about marriage, meeting his partner and how God has steered his blossoming career so far, reports MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN.  John Noble Barinyima is a very happy man at the moment after the Super Eagles’ goalkeeper recently tied the knot with his long-term partner at a ceremony held at Deeyor community in Gokana Local Government Area in Rivers State on May 7. Apart from getting married, the Enyimba of Aba goal minder has seen his career prospects increase in the last one year. He has been a regular name in the national team roster since he received his first call-up for last year’s Africa Cup of Nations Qualifiers against Benin and Lesotho. Although he did not played in the two games, his form for his club was enough for him to get regular call up as a backup to the three first team goalkeepers Francis Uzoho, Maduka Okoye and Daniel Akpeyi and was shortlisted in 2021 AFCON Nations Cup by Caretaker Coach Eguavoen as part of the 28-Man Nigeria Squad and was with the team when Ghana stopped Nigeria from participating at the 2022 FIFA World Cup scheduled for Qatar later in the year. An ecstatic Noble said what attracted him to his wife were certain qualities she possessed which made her standout.  Apart from being God-fearing, her selflessness and support were also qualities that fuelled his attraction for her and convinced him to make her his partner in life. “I was so happy on our wedding day because that was something we have both been waiting for a long time. So I was so happy. “There are many qualities that made me choose her as my wife. She is God fearing, she is an amazing person who loves giving and I can say these are some of the qualities that I really love about her. “My wife is also always supportive and most often she would fast whenever we are having a match because she knows the result of the match is important to me.  She has been encouraging since we met and been there even when things were rough for me. “We actually met at a restaurant and coincidentally, we both went there for a meal about the same time. It was from there we started talking and later we became friends which has led us to where we are today. “ When asked about his plans for a honeymoon, Noble revealed that he does not have any plans for now as he is very busy with Enyimba at the moment, adding that his wife understands the nature of his job but once the season has ended, they would find a lovely place to spend their delayed honeymoon. Noble would be looking at getting back into Enyimba starting 11 having played just a handful of games for the People’s Elephant this season.  The 27-year-old missed the People’s Elephants 1-1 NPFL draw at Akwa United last weekend and will hope to be in goal when they host Lobi Stars on Sunday.   PYO’s impact assessment     Goodbye, journeymen coaches     Pepsi, Guinness back World Corporate Golf Challenge   “She knows my kind of job as a footballer and she knows that I am busy right now with my team, Enyimba in the Nigeria Professional Football league (NPFL). “I had explained to her that after the marriage, we would have only two days together and at the end of the season, we can travel to a nice place for our honeymoon. “We have decided about the number of kids we are going to have and by the grace of God, we would settle for a boy and a girl but along the line we would accept even if the two children are girls or boys.” Before August 2020 when Enyimba signed the shot-stopper on a three-year deal, he was an unknown quantity on the local scene. Noble, though, was a hero in Togo. The Bori City-born footballer built his reputation, turning out for Toro Sports Academy, Kilsi United FC, Gokana United FC, Cynosure FC, and Kotoko FC in the Togo Premier Division before moving to ASC Kara. It was with ASC Kara that he won the Togolese championship in 2018 and appeared in the 2018/19 CAF Confederation Cup, where he caught the attention of Enyimba scouts with his outstanding performances. Noble, who is from Ogoni, an ethnic group in Rivers State, believes his name ‘Barinyima’ has impacted his life positively, adding that his late mother would advise him to keep working and God would lead him in his career path which so far is on an upwards trajectory. “In Gokana in Ogoni land of Rivers State, Barinyima means ‘God knows everything’ and I think this has impacted on my career. “I can recall that when my mum was alive, she was always saying that it is only God that knows where he’s going to lead me in my career and that I should just keep working and have trust in God. “My friends actually gave me the nickname Number One because right from when I started out as goalkeeper, I always strive to be the best and that is why they call me Number One till today,” he said.