Seplat Petroleum Development Company has acquired the shares of Exxon Mobil in the United States with policies that ensure the attainment of net-zero carbon. The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, made this known yesterday during the launch of  Seplat Tree Planting Campaign tagged: “Tree-4- Life Launch,” in Abuja. He extolled the oil firm for the acquisition, adding that the people and the Federal Government appreciate the deal. He said: “I am using this opportunity to commend Seplat on their recent acquisition of the shares of Exxon Mobil companies in USA. “Such investments, which are underpinned by responsible policies that ensure the achievement of net-zero e commendable and appreciated by the Government and the good people of Nigeria.” He described the tree planting programme as an initiative targeted at reducing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. The minister commended the firm’s commitment to the net-zero Initiative. He recalled that the tree planting was in line with Buhari’s commitment on net-zero carbon emissions by 2060. Sylva noted: “This requires initiatives such as this being undertaken by Seplat, as well as sustained financial assistance, technology transfer and capacity building from international partners willing and able to assist us in this regard.” According to him, Nigeria still requires fossil fuels, especially gas, as its base load energy source to address energy poverty and power supply. The minister recalled that the Federal Government has declared gas as its transition fuel, and its pathway to net-zero carbon emission. He said this presents investment opportunities given the oil and gas reserves which can be commercialized.   TotalEnergies to sell 10% stake in NNPC, SPDC JV     NCAA cautions pilots on ‘hazardous’ weather     Seven success tips for business start ups   The minister said the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) proposes a fiscal regime that encourages investment in order to monetise existing reserves in the short to medium term, and generous incentives to enable development, distribution, penetration and utilisation of gas. He also revealed that there also a number of enablers and initiatives which support the realisation of the full potential of the gas sector – the development of critical infrastructure and systems – Decade of Gas, Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) pipeline, Nigeria/Morocco pipeline, Trans-Saharan Pipeline and the Nigerian Gas Transportation Network Code. Speaking, the Seplat Chief Executive Officer, Roger Brown noted that in order to address climate change challenges, the company will be planting five million trees in five years. He identified deforestation as one of the challenges fueling the impacts of climate change. “Well, our initial target is 5 million trees that put simply as 1 million trees every year for five years,” Brown said. According to him, since the firm operates in Edo and Delta State, it will begin the implementation of the five million tree planting initiative from there. Brown said the company will later extend the tree planting programme to northern Nigeria. Responding, Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, requested Seplat to plant 50 per cent of the trees in his state. Represented by Mr. Unity Okunagwe, he said the Governor is working with six organization to restore the forest reserves. Meanwhile, Seplat outgoing chairman, ABC Ojiakor noted that the company is accountable for between 25 to 30per cent of gas production to power in the country. He noted that 80per cent of the energy consumption in the country is dependent on deforestation. According to him, owing to the company’s consciousness of the environment, it set 2024 as its gas flare exit date while the Federal Government set 2030.