Film star Onyi Alexx has called out the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) for invading her home by jumping through the fence. The actress, in a post on her Instagram page, stated she was still shivering, dumbfounded and traumatised seeing how the men of aw enforcement agency gained entrance in her home without permission. According to her, when she confronted them at the staircase inside her home, they claimed it was a mistake. Alexx further promised to report the incident to the agency through the right medium.   Buhari seeks APC governors support to pick successor     Buhari and his unfolding succession plan     NWC members accuse party chair Adamu of taking unilateral…   Sharing 52-second footage of how the NDLEA operatives gained entrance into her building, the actress wrote: “I am still Shuddering and shivering. I am very dumbfounded and traumatized. Please watch this is a …………. minutes footage of @ndlea_nigeria jumping through my fence with no bidding from me or any warrant. “My little niece who saw them jumping through my gate called on my attention before I could even comprehend what was happening they had gained entrance into my kitchen, sitting room and was heading upstairs , I was in shock. I have a baby in my home. My little niece is still startled and in complete shock too. “They finally meet with me on my staircase inside my house and said it’s a mere mistake, they saw a man running who jumped into my compound. I kindly asked them to leave my home which they concurred too. I am very devastated. This is definitely not fair. I didn’t deserve this unnecessary threat from you @ndlea_nigeria “I watch videos of how you (NDLEA) abuse the power bestowed on you by Nigerians , your men look nothing like law enforcement agents , they have no regards and respect for people . How do you even enter someone’s house without permission or someone to witness your activities within my space. I hope nothing was planted in my house by these lawless humans in your NDLEA monkey jacket. Enough said, I will definitely be in contact with your agency through the right medium. @ndlea_nigeria @nigeriapoliceforce.”