Let me start today  with  a confession –  on the nature of politics and elections in  most  nations of the world  , especially Nigeria  –   that I  not only find   the   political  party  primaries difficult  to understand   but   I  am   equally     baffled  with the high rate  at which  candidates spring up overnight wanting to be president .  I think  I have  myself to blame for both my ignorance and distress  on the primaries because  even though I am a card  carrying member of a political  party, I  have never attended a political party meeting in my life  not to talk of witnessing  any  primaries . Having said that however  I know  many Nigerians like me who are not apolitical  but are just  not interested in party politics or  the rigors and costs  of political  participation in  Nigeria . This   is because   our  political system   has left    people  like   me and others     stranded  because the entrance fee   to party politics is not only unaffordable   and expensive but clearly  beyond  reach. Especially    when  the forms for presidential aspirants cost 100m naira and       registration  fees  are  so high for  all   politically available vacancies. They  are  reasonable at that price only    for professional politicians  who live on politics and have been at the game for so long that they  have no other vocation , hobby or  distractions of any type ,   because  politics  , outside religion ,  and yahoo  yahoo  ,  has  become the most lucrative  undertaking and   past  time  in our great nation Right  now the  primaries for  the presidential candidates are  in high  gears in the two  major parties , the APC and the PDP  as well as the many obscure  ones whose candidates know certainly that they have no chance in hell  of getting anywhere near  the presidency  but are still  in the race because they can afford  to pay  for the registration  forms any way . It is this race , the primaries ,  that draw our attention today  even  as we proceed  to look at elections elsewhere globally  .             Especially with the primaries for the November 2022  mid term elections in the US ,   and   the just  concluded presidential  elections in the Philippines  .Of  course  ,    we start   with  Nigeria ,    where  we really  know where the shoe  pinches   with  regard  to our expensive politics and equally fragile and offensive democracy  .   2023: The ideal, realisties and sociology of politics     Supreme Court dismisses Amaechi’s appeal against N96b…     Alimikhena withdraws from Edo senatorial race, dumps APC   I had  a discussion with a  former  Federal  Attorney General in his country  home some time during which  he told  me when  I asked of his immediate  future plan ,  as he was about to leave government and   an election was approaching , and he told  me that  I should  be patient  because  there  was going to be what  he labelled a realignment  of  political  forces before the election . He  never witnessed  the realignment     he saw or    the   election  because  he was assassinated shortly after and his killers are yet  to be found till  today  . Today  however a realignment if forces is in the offing the way  the ruling party is about  to elect its presidential  candidate  this weekend   on Sunday , tomorrow  . There is talk of   a possible  concensus candidate similar to how the Chairman  of the party  was recently  elected but the Chairman  himself has debunked that by saying the presidency is a different ball  game too big  for concensus . However  a  stark show of realignment   of  forces  that was unthinkable before  is   possible  emergence of former President Goodluck Jonathan  who was defeated in the 2015  presidential elections by the incumbent  president . Jonathan is not a member of the APC but is reportedly being  wooed by those close to the president . It has even been mooted that the deadline for submission  of forms will  not affect him even though he has not collected the form yet and the deadline is gone for submission  of forms . Until  now , the former president was   his successor’s  able  envoy   to places where there have een coups recently like Mali and  Guinea  ,   sent to persuade successful coup plotters in those nations to  return  to their barracks  or set dates for return to civilian  rule , a task  in which  he failed   woefully  because the  soldiers never called off  their coups in those nations .  Now it seems the president is about to reward  his predecessor with the presidency for failed assignments in calling off coups on behalf  of ECOWAS .That  will  be a daunting  task even  for  our strong president who wields great power in his party given  the way the chairman was evolved by concensus last  time around . Given that 26  aspirants are in the primaries  there certainly will  be a lot of bad blood if the president handpicks a candidate and foist  him on the party . Such  resentment will lead to a new round of alignment of forces   after  the primaries . It  is obvious who is  the forerunner is  in this race   and that is the candidate who stuck his neck out   from the Lagoon in Lagos to proclaim that the present president was electable and the party rallied round that campaign call and the president got his two terms . I   really  can  not see how the president can hand  pick any other person than the Jagaban , Bola Ahmed  Tinubu . Otherwise  the race should take its course and the primaries should elect the APC presidential  candidate  from the 26  aspirants  . To  do otherwise is to set  afoot  an unexpected chain of events the end of which  no man can   foresee  .  It   makes  one to   recall the prediction    of  the great Tony Enahoro   sometime   ago  on the start of events that culminated ominously in the  AG    crisis   of 1962  and  the  Nigerian civil war subsequently . In  the US ,  the  party  primaries in the Republican party  has  pitched  former President  Donald Trump against fellow  Republicans like his  Vice  President Mike  Pence ,which  is a real  realignment of forces now in the November 2022  mid term elections,  and perhaps later in the 2024 US presidential  elections . The reason is simple . Trump asked his Vice President not to validate the 2020 election results won by Joe Biden at the last stage of the counting of the  states   electoral  ballots as required by law . Pence  refused and what has been called the insurrection of Jan 6 2021 ensued .  Now  Trump     supported  the opponents  of both  the incumbent Governor   Brian Kemp and Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger  in the Republican primaries but  the two  Republicans defeated Trump’s surrogates . That  is a  realignment that did not favor  Trump’s claim that he won Georgia in the 2020 presidential elections, a claim that the two  victorious Georgia Republicans strongly  denied. In  the May  9  2022    presidential   elections in the Philippines   a dynastic  political pairing of Ferdinand Marcos Junior  , the only son of his father of the same name who was deposed in 1986 and the Daughter of incumbent President Duterte  , Sarah  won the presidential  elections . That  really was a vintage concoction of a realignment  of  forces  and a remarkable  one at that ,   given the fact that the father of the new Vice President was so anti corruption  while in office and the father of the new President was  unrepentantly  corrupt  and  was indeed a kleptocrat ,   before being sent out of office in 1986 .  It   remains to be seen  why  the  Filipinos  chose  this combination to vote in ,  against  all  odds ,  but  the fact cannot be denied  that  a strange  realignment has emerged   most   unexpectedly   in that nation .