The controversy generated by the latest attempt to further amend the Electoral (Amendment) Act 2022, which the president had not signed as this column went to bed exposes our office holders as self-serving bigots. The National Assembly in her effort to curb the excesses of the state governors who pack state primaries with outrageous number of statutory delegates, seems to have outlawed themselves and other statutory delegates, including past and present presidents and their vice, past and present governors and their deputies, the chairman and members of the National Executive Committee, and the horde of past legislative leaders from voting in the national convention. With selfish interests driving the executive and legislators, there is utter confusion few days to the state primaries and national convention of political parties, which will determine those who will contest in the 2023 elections. To further muddle up the situation, while the president and his attorney general are in court seeking to strike down section 84(12) of the Electoral Act, 2022, which the plaintiffs consider unduly advantageous to the legislators, the latter in turn have rushed out a further amendment to the Act, and is helplessly begging the president to sign same, to grant the excluded statutory delegates the right to participate in the primaries. For this column, our dear nation is a victim of self-serving political actors, who are selfish, and who think less of establishing a stable electoral process for the good of the country. That explains why at every electoral cycle since 1999, the nation is jittery as political actors wobble and fumble with experimental additions to the nation’s electoral laws that will serve their selfish interest. And because majority of the present day political actors are not statesmen, they will wait until the election year is close by before they start their jejune experiments. Perhaps, some of them derive sadistic pleasure from the tension that grip the nation, as they practice their dangerous games. And come to think of it, the National Assembly is packed with highly paid legislative assistants, who are supposed to be experts in all that is required to make good laws. Apparently, what is lacking is the patriotism needed to make laws that will serve the nation and not merely those occupying temporal positions. What baffles this column is that after making life difficult for members of the National Assembly, the governors who are the tormentors-in-chief end up in the National Assembly, where they in turn suffer similar abuses from their successors. Ordinarily, if our elected officials are clear-headed, they will realise that power is transient, and as such they will make laws that are fair and equitable for everyone, regardless of the temporal positions they occupy. A cursory look through the laws shows that Nigeria has amended the Electoral Act many times. There is the Electoral Act 2010, Electoral (Amendment) Act 2010, Electoral (Amendment) Act 2011, Electoral (Amendment No. 2) Act 2011, Electoral (Amendment) Act 2015, and Electoral (Amendment) Act 2022 which came after several attempts, and now the pending amendment No. 2 of 2022, awaiting the president’s signature as this column is being written. It should worry Nigerians that despite the several amendments, the nation is still edgy because of the failure to get it right. The contending parties should therefore have a rethink, if they want this democracy to survive. For instance, instead of forestalling all appointed persons from participating in the primaries, whether as delegates or as contestants, the legislators can peg the number or category of appointed persons that can participate as delegates. In the present political dispensation, senators have resigned to take up appointments as minsters, showing the importance of that office. Indeed, a former senate president was appointed secretary to the federal government.   What manner of ‘consensus’?     Transactional politics: Bane of democracy in Nigeria     2023: Last Chance for Nigerians to set the country on path…   If those positions are important in the political dispensation, it is absurd that a political party would exclude them from an important political programme such as a party primary or national convention. The same logic applies to those appointed as commissioners and heads of important parastatals and agencies of government. If they command political influence and extend patronages to members of the public, it is absurd that when such influence should be used to scurry support for the party, the holders are excluded. Perhaps, the problem is not with the electoral acts, but with political practitioners who are always determined to have their way all the time. That explains why the legislators are after the jugular of the executive, while the executive in turn treats legislators as appendages of their office. Yet, members of both arms of government profess to belong to the same political interest group, and sometimes serve on the same side of the divide at one time or the other. Beyond the self-serving interests of the political actors, the powers granted the president and governors by the 1999 constitution (as amended) are too expansive, and that is a contributing factor to the crisis. The worst part is that at the federal level, the constitution packs all the powers of any modern state in the exclusive legislative list, while the remnants of the executive powers are reserved for the state executives which do everything in their power to fend any attempt to near their throne. It is this over-concentration of power in the hands of the executive arms that is causing the desperation by contestants, their sponsors and supporters. The tragedy of over-concentration of power in the hands of the chief executive at the federal and state levels is compounded by the weak institutional checks and balances. The most recent manifestation of such weakness is the alleged misappropriation of N80 billion by the suspended accountant general of the federation, Ahmed Idris. If Idris could have such humongous resources at his disposal, one can imagine what is available to ministers and heads of governmental agencies, sometimes, to deal with, as it pleases them. While the officials of government in the states may not have such huge sums to play ping-pong with, what is available in their care is still huge by every standard. So, the main concern of Nigerians should be how to ensure that those elected or selected to govern or make laws are accountable to the rest of Nigerians. If there are no free money to be stolen or unduly earned from the political positions, there will be no desperation to win elections, or gain appointments at all costs. And so our country will not be on tenterhooks, because of a general election. As we prepare for the 2023 elections, there is no doubt that Nigeria is in urgent need of statesmen, whether as lawmakers or the chief executives. May God help Nigerians to make the right choices.