The previous month was filled with many dramas with April 29 recording the most. Some of these events were unfortunate as scores were lost while others were general scenarios that left many aghast and furious. Ø Popular actress Nkechi Blessing Sunday and her ex-lover Opeyemi David Falegan, on April 7 and the following days, set social media agog as they opened a can of worms following a messy breakup. Falegen accused her of being a lesbian while she referred to him jobless. She further revealed they were never married like she claimed and apologised to the public for the deceitful announcement and displays. Ø On April 8, gospel singer, Osinachi Nwachukwu, the lead singer of Dunamis Church, died. She was allegedly killed by her husband, Peter Nwachukwu after suffering domestic violence according to the deceased family members and colleagues Ø On April 6, following the implementation of a Federal Government’s order directing telecommunication companies (telcos) to bar unlinked Subscriber Identification Modules (SIMs) from making outgoing calls, many affected Nigerians took to social media as well as stormed the telcos’ offices around Lagos state, to express their displeasure. Over 72.77 million active telecommunication subscribers were barred from making calls on their SIMs the previous day according to a joint statement signed by the Director of Public Affairs of the Nigerian Communications Commission, Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, and the Head, Corporate Communications at the Nigeria Identity Management Commission, Mr. Kayode Adegokewere. Ø Actress Rita Dominic shut down Owerri as she wedded her hearthrob, Felix Anosike on April 19 in a grand star-studded ceremony. Ø On April 18, there surfaced online viral videos of Chrisland students seen having s3x during their participation at the World School Games which held in Dubai in March after Ubi Franklin, a music executive raised the alarm of a possible rape of a 10-year-old girl. The video of the supposed 10-year-old female pupil and other male colleagues sparked outrage on the internet. Ø Many people were, Friday night, April 22 killed when an explosion rocked an illegal crude oil refinery in Abaezi forest, Ohaji-Egbema Local of Imo state. The unfortunate explosion killed scores burning them beyond recognition which promoted mass burial for the charred bodies on April 26 and fumigation of the entire area of the incident to avoid a genocide. Ø Debo Adebayo, popularly known as Mr Macaroni aka Daddy Wa and Kemi Ikuseedun, aka Mummy Wa, who become popular on the social media space, especially on Instagram through their skits, got tongues wagging on April 23 when they posted pictures of themselves in what seemed to be their traditional wedding photos. Moreso, Mr Macaroni, via his verified Instagram page, posted a series of pictures and wrote, “Engagement Today, Wedding Tomorrow.” Kemi also took to her verified Instagram page, @Kemz_mama, and posted a short wedding clip with the watermark “Kemi Ikuseedun + Debo Adebayo.” In the caption section, she wrote, “DaddyWa finally paid mummy wa’s bride price @mrmacaroni + @kemz_mama.”   Five Nigerian celebrities with different baby mamas     50 passengers escape as fire guts plane in Port-Harcourt     Row over ECOWAS Common External Tariff   Ø The Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, who ‘joined his ancestors’ at the age of 83, after almost 52 years on the throne – and as the longest-reigning Alaafin of all-time. According to reports, Alaafin Adeyemi passed away in the late hours of Friday, April 22 at the Afe Babalola University Teaching Hospital, Ado Ekiti with his remains brought to Oyo town in the early hours of Saturday and traditional rites commenced, after which he was laid to rest within the premises of the palace. Ø On April 25, Elon Musk bought over Twitter for $44 billion, for total control of the company after Twitter’s board of directors accepted his offer. Few days later, he revealed his next acquisition would be Coco-Cola so he could return it to it’s original form with cocaine in it. As a result, many Nigerians on Twitter used the opportunity to beg the world’s richest man to come buy their country for reasons best known to them. Ø Same day, Portable travelled to UK after he seen at the airport with billionaire businessman, E-Money who sponsored his trip. on arrival in UK, the Zazu crooner overjoyed, posed shirtless with several persons on the street of London. Ø On April 26, a viral video of lady allegedly a Nigerian influencer seen eating the faeces of a white man in Dubai for $25,000 surfaced online. Ø Yul Edochie on Wednesday, April 27 announced a second wife, Judy Austin alongside unveiling of his infant son. A post which earned him prayer of lamentation from his first wife, May who sought God’s judgement for her husband and his new wife. Ø Actress Chinedu Bernard while cleaning Chapel of St. Leo the Great Catholic Church inside Federal Housing Estate in Enugu, slumped and died on April 29. Gossip has it that “Choco’ as she was fondly called was allegedly dating Yul Edochie and her death was most likely a heart attack as a result of the heartbreak from news of Yul Edochie announcing her colleague as second wife. Ø Burna Boy became first African artiste to sell out Madison Square Garden New York on April 29 with an energetic performance that threw the ladies into frenzy which saw them throwing their brassieres at him while he caught them and hung them around his trousers as he continued to thrill the audience even more. Ø Terrorists behind Abuja-Kaduna train attack on April 29, released photo of a new born birthed by one of the hostages. The incident happened between Katari and Rijana train stations, en route Kaduna from Abuja on Monday night, March 28 which left 8 dead, including one Dr. Megafu Nwando Chinelo, scores injured and many others kidnapped or declared missing. Ø Same day, Afrobeats singer, Davido revealed he will be getting married soon as he’s tired of being a player. Ø Also, videos of ladies having sexual intercourse with dog surfaced online although their faces weren’t captured in the video. Ø Another which hit the internet same day was one of lady being given a ‘head’ also known as ‘blow job’ by a dog which led the ‘doggy’ #doggy and ‘dog’ #dogs hash tags to trend on various social media platforms especially Twitter. Ø On April 30, a viral TikTok video saw a lady claiming she slept with a dog for N1.7million. The slim, light-skinned woman with TikTok user ID @Veegodess began to trend after saying there was no big deal about bestiality. She claimed in the video, that contrary to what people thought about sleeping with a dog, she had never contracted any disease since she began the act. But following backlash from Nigerians who condemned her for the act, the lady recanted, posting two more videos in which she debunked her earlier claim, begging Nigerians for forgiveness. She explained that it was she was merely “catching cruise” and advised people to shun bestiality.