A late goal from Bayelsa Queens forward Monday Gift yesterday ensured that the ‘Prosperity’ Girls got all three points against perennial rivals and defending Champions, Rivers Angels in the first match of the 2022 NWFL Premiership Super 6 Playoffs in Benin. Though Rivers Angels had the better possession in the early stages of the first half, the Bayelsa Queens legend netted, after a group of Rivers Angels defenders allowed a loose ball to go past them inside their penalty area. Rivers Angels left full back Rafiat Imran levelled in the 76th minute through a well-placed free-kick, from about 40 yards. The defending Champions continued to threaten upfront with Maryann Ezeanagu, Chiamaka Okwuchuku and Brume Ikhekua, but couldn’t go past Bayelsa Queens Cameroonian goalkeeper Ange Gabrielle. At the tick of time, loanee Monday took advantage of a counter attack to beat Rivers Angels Ghanaian Goalkeeper Adjei Charlotte to give her team a hard fought victory. Rivers Angels will now face Delta Queens today by 4pm at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, Benin. Meanwhile, Naija Ratels FC were walked over by Nasarawa Amazons in the other game yesterday as the Abuja-based Super Six debutants refused to grace the match in the Tulcan Energy customized official jersey as the tournament’s sponsors but with their official jersey for the season.   2022 ITTF Africa Cup: Egypt’s teenage champs Goda warns…     Egypt 2023: Flying Eagles seek ticket against Cote d’Ivoire     Women AFCON: Ebi, Oshoala, Ordega, 29 others listed for…   After so many interventions which lasted for about an hour, the centre referee performed the official walk over and Nasarawa Amazons players zoomed off in jubilation. Reacting to the unsporting behaviour of Naija Ratels, Chairperson of Nigeria Women Football, Aisha Falode said :“We told them each team will get 1 Million Naira each, 5 Million naira to the winners, N3 Million to the runners up and N2 Million to the second runners up, in total, 16 million naira is going back to the league.” She added: “This man who has just qualified for the league for the first time, who is playing in the super six for the first time has come to disorganized what we have done; we have a responsibility, we have a duty to the organization and those who appointed us to manage this league”. “We have just walked them over for flaunting the rule of being the club that has not worn the official jersey. We will reorder the fixtures and move on, this is what the rule is all about.” “If you have a shirt sponsorship, you are supposed to write to the league board and as a matter of fact, a percentage of the sponsorship is supposed to come to us, we are not aware they have any sponsorship deal”. “The so-called sponsor is in Nigeria, we have been in touch with him, but they are not in sponsorship with him and even if they were, you write to the league and you give us our percentage and if we want to infringe on your deal, we will come to the table, that opportunity wasn’t presented”. On if there would be stiffer punishment aside from the walkover, the ace sports journalist said: “one step at a time.”     Pix 2: of Bayelsa Queens ‘ Monday Gift (22) celebrates the second goal to give the Restoration Girls of Bayelsa a 2-1 victory against Rivers Angels.