Reigning Nigeria Women’s Football League Premiership champions Rivers Angels have failed to register a win after two games at the on-going Super 6 Playoffs in Benin City after they were held goalless yesterday by Delta Queens. Rivers Angels needed a win after their opening loss to Bayelsa Queens but they met a stiff opposition from Delta Queens who are were also eyeing their first win after their goalless draw against the hosts, Edo Queens on Monday. Yesterday, Bayelsa Queens’ loanee from FC Robo Queens, Monday Gift continued from where she stopped in the first game where his late goal sank Rivers Angels with another three goals in their 4-0 win over Naija Ratels. The Prosperity Ladies left no time to be wasted as they set the pace of the game from the blast of the whistle and their dominance was rewarded soon after as Gift scored the opening in the tenth minutes with a curling shot that beat goalkeeper Doris Ohio flatly. Gift doubled her team’s lead in the 40th minute as rose above the poorly set up Ratels defence to nod home Glory Edet’s free-kick while sensational Etim Edidiong registered Bayelsa Queens’ third goal in the 59th minute.   Orlando Pirates vs. RS Berkane: CAF confirms kick-off time…     EUROPA LEAGUE FINAL: Aribo fancies Rangers against Eintracht…     Liverpool sweats on Salah, Van Dijk for Southampton   Gift got her third goal of the day and her fourth at the on-going championship in the 62nd minute to seal her side’s comfortable win. In the other game , Edo Queens’ hope of winning the Super 6 is fading after they lost a 1-0 to Nasarawa Amazons courtesy of a seventh minute goal by Dooshima Tarnum converted from the penalty spot after an infringement in the goal area. Edo Queens’ Head Coach Wemimo Matthew was fired immediately after the game by the club’s management following the announcement by the state’s Sports Commission chairman Yusuf Alli . Meanwhile, today is being observed as rest day while tomorrow’s Matchday Three fixtures will see Nasarawa Amazons facing Delta Queens and Bayelsa Queens face off against Edo Queens. Naija Ratels will trade tackles with Rivers Angels as both teams press for their first win of the playoffs.