Lest we forget, our Fellow Nigerians are still in captivity. The heart-rending photographs have been seen by almost all Nigerians. SERAP, a well-respected watchdog body on the actions and inactions of governance, recently sued government over the apparent non-action or failure of that action to achieve the God-given freedom of these kidnapped Fellow Nigerian Citizens, who must feel almost totally abandoned. Our children, boys, girls, women, men, pregnant women, delivering women and now new-born babies are in that ‘captivity trap’ even as apparently more than 30+ potential presidential candidates find N100,000,000 each just to pick up a declaration of intent form. Remember the minimum wage was N18,000 and upgraded to N30,000. Please note that Governor Obaseki has raised the minimum wage to N40,000 at a time when some governors are giving millions, billions to projects and persons totally outside the state of  influence while owing salaries, gratuity, pensions and running costs for institutions in their own states. Robbing A to pay B??  What a country? Just how much tax is paid by these potential presidents themselves, their sponsors and their supporters to be able to gather N3,000,000,000. Sadly, and as an important reference point in the ongoing decay of Nigeria, this terrible train tragedy, in which at least nine were murdered, is when the tertiary university system is almost totally paralysed because government ignores its constitutionally agreed and binding responsibility to pay adequately for education of its youth and is even derisively hurtful and economical with the truth in comments of ministerial officials charged with progress of those under their ministerial care in the education system. Add the inflammatory and not placatory ministerial utterances spat out without caution or presidential reprimand.  Shame. Certainly, we appreciate the gallant efforts including hardship, danger and laying down their lives, of members of our security forces and the upsurge in the efforts of the security forces in the days after the train attack.  However, positive results are the only yardstick for progress of the ‘train pain’. When will they be freed? Our teeming students especially seeking university knowledge are also victims of bad governance which would rather expend the equivalent of four or five year education budget in one year paying for the over-bloated political needs of legislators and a highly consumptive and greed-driven presidential system totally unsustainable in a country ridden into the ground by a never ending self-centred avalanche of political gladiators consumed by ego and power who are gearing up for primaries nationwide without one single debate between the candidates to identify the chaff from the wheat. In this opening round of the Nigerian political cycle for 2023-2027, it seems the political leadership and party membership appear to have put pecuniary and personality first abandoning policy plans. In fact, the ever change-of-party musical chair ‘dance of politic life-and-death’ between the political parties is a disgusting dance viewed by Nigerian citizenry.   Porn parish?     The local dimensions of Nigerian presidential politics     Retirees to Oyetola: borrow N50b to offset our pension   If most politicians continue to put acquiring billions above service, greed above giving, monetary and moral corruption above morality, mediocrity above merit, politics above policies, Nigeria will continue to suffer and struggle – a whale struggling in a fishnet of corruption. LAUTECH has bounced back after suffering while political elephants fought on the grass, ruining growth and development and delaying the graduation of hundreds by up to 10 years, with no compensation. The new growth is under the guidance of the Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde-led administration since the amicably cross-party separation of the Siamese twins from Osun State’s half of the investment and manifest as the recent graduation ceremony, the first in six years, and introduction of new courses and regular payment of staff resulting in LAUTECH climbing the ladder of ranking. Congratulations to the governor who is the Visitor, the University Council, the vice chancellor, the university teaching and non-teaching staff, the graduands and also the honourees including Colonel Rtd Oladayo Popoola, former Governor of Oyo State who must be particularly happy at the recovery and successful academic outcome of one of his own governorship babies. The recent introduction of  an Ibadan, Oyo State modern mass transit bus system with modern Ojoo and Challenge Bus Terminals, like those in Lagos, with an additional complement of 60-seater commuter buses is a welcome event especially at this time of increased danger in public transport and over-speeding habits of the motorcyclists, aka okada causing the Okada Epidemic. Add lawless motor union touts, jumping in front of commercial vehicles to demand trip fees and thus causing traffic chaos and accidents at junctions like Oritamefa, Ibadan. No motorcycle city can survive.  Imagine 10,000 motorcycles, burning 10,000 engines taking 10,000 people to their destination. Far better for 166 bus trips of buses each taking 60 passengers. But as has been seen in Lagos it is important to monitor the staff of public transport to stop staff-driven rape, robbery, kidnapping, ritual killing and organ transplant selling. It is recommended that adequate security systems be put in place even in the public bus transport service to proactively prevent crime. Governments must resist personalising or nicknaming projects or they may not outlive the government of the day and instead be ignored and killed by future governments. ‘AJIMOSE’ and ‘OMI TUNTUN’ are personalisation and politicisation of government projects endangering nonpartisan funding in future. The name ‘Oyo State Bus Transport Service’ will last and be added to by governments in future.