Ancient city of Ibadan in Oyo Kingdom, celebrated one of its grandest moments, with the prestigious Ibadan 2022 Polo Tournament, which came to colourful climax last weekend, with home crowd favourites, Lead City University team emerging the overall champions. Koyin Owoeye powered=Lead City  made good their pre-tournament rating, clinching the event’s biggest prize on offer while Lagos flag bearers Lagos Ikoyi  sweep through tough oppositions to earn their first ever Ade Rotimi Cup.   Ibadan Polo kings parading Polo President, Koyin Owoeye, Asharaf Yahaya, Ahmadu Umar and Argentine professional  Diego White showcased  a typical Ibadan all round polo as they eased through to the final and calmly distinguished tough challenge from Lagos Ikoyi to earn event’s biggest prize. The Lagosians who had stormed the Eleyele Polo ground venue fortified with Funsho George, Ibrahim Dantala, Kwame Isa and Abdurrahman Mohammed had looked upset the tournament favourites, but their slow start and suspect horsepower was their biggest undoing in the decisive finale. The final of the event’s second biggest prize, the Rotimi Cup was full of excitement and drama as two local rivals, Lagos Ikoyi 2 took on their Lagos Awolowo rivals in a make or mar clash that kept the crowd on their  feet from start to finish. But at the end of the four fiercely fought four chukka final, it was the Ikoyi side that emerged the winners, while Awolowo team earned the Rotimi Cup runners-up prize.   UCL final comes alive on GOTv      PARIS 2O22: Cubana hosts Liverpool, Real UCL showdown     US Tour:  Peseiro parleys Eagles’ coaching crew   The week-long annual polo fiesta that attracted top  government officials, traditional rulers from across the South West, diplomats and business tycoons threw up an unforgettable highlight as Karl Alakija led his Ibadan Durante Farm team to win the Ade Alakija Cup, played in perpetual memory his late father. Visiting Port Harcourt contingent who arrived loaded with three teams managed the  runners-up spot in the glamorous festival that brought the first phase of the exciting national tour series to a befitting climax. Owoeye described the event as one of the most exciting Ibadan tournaments in years even as he hailed all the visiting players and the teeming polo enthusiasts for making the glamorous fiesta such a huge success. Ibadan Polo Captain and Tournament Manager, Bola Adeyemi congratulated all the winners and runners up for their sportsmanship and high level of discipline throughout the fiesta. “We are particularly indebted to our numerous sponsors for their unflinching support which ensures the successful hosting of this international polo tournament even at such notice,” Adeyemi added. Meanwhile, the second phase of national polo tour is already spreading excitement with the on-going UNICEF Charity Shield international polo tournament in Kaduna.