Leader of the ‘unseen’ persons ruling us, Alhaji Mamman Daura, spoke last week. He said enough of turn-by-turn presidency for Nigeria. He decreed that North-South rotation of the presidency of Nigeria should be dead; from 2023, the most competent among contenders would be put in the Presidential Villa. The Afenifere reacted sharply; the North is silent; the Ohanaeze spoke hard. Leaders of the Niger Delta also kicked against Daura’s executive order banning zoning of the presidency. But what can their puny noise do to a people who built their confidence on solid rock? When a man whose lips rarely move decides to speak out, you had better drop all you are doing and listen carefully. The man who spoke is not known to be a flippant person. He spoke as the mouthpiece of a mysterious clan of northern electoral deciders. Ignore the fuddling statement from Muhammadu Buhari that Mamman’s statement was his personal opinion. The eighty-something-year-old man didn’t speak for himself. He spoke for the opaque, predatory system he represents which has benefitted from the opposite of competence all through our national history” – Lasisi Olagunju, Sahara Reporters,  August  , 2021. From the look of things, it appears like the North cares nothing, whatever happens to Nigeria if , by hook or crook, it retains the presidency about being vacated by President Muhammadu Buhari, a Northerner. That,  it seems,  is why the President’s preferred candidate, and now National Chairman of the APC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, could have so recklessly  – after he, a Northerner, had been made the party’s  chairman, unilaterally overturned governor El Rufai’s categorical, and commonsensical, statement of 22 February, 2022 to the effect that “we have agreed a zoning formula for all the six geo- political zones”. “Essentially, the Northern zone will have positions the South have had in the last eight years, and vice versa. It is a very simple, EQUITABLE and FAIR formula” ( caps mine). The serpentine plot to do otherwise, had started when Alhaji Maman Daura jolted the country by flying  a  kite in July 2020 to the effect that:” Rotation has been done once, twice and three times. It is important that this nation is united as one, the most qualified/competent should be elected and not someone who comes from a particular zone”. Dr Junaid Mohammed had duly followed that up by saying that: “If you are talking about democracy you must allow free choice”. “Competence, integrity and truthfulness must be the kind of qualities to look for in a leader”. “We have to accept that zoning and rotation which we have practised for over two decades has not worked. The ultimate test of any process is if it has delivered”.”All the leaders we have produced based on this faulty premise of rotation have not delivered. Why should we continue with it?” That coming from Dr Junaid only a few months after President Buhari’s re- election, one would now believe that the man was a prophet of sorts. Rational as the two may appear, it is obvious that some Northern elders were  surreptitiously laying the foundation for retaining the presidency in the North at the end of President Buhati’s term. I  say this, unequivocally, because it was because of this selfsame “zoning and rotation”, that former Niger state governor, Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu, declared, without mincing words,  that Northern PDP governors abandoned candidate Goodluck Jonathan in 2015 to work for the victory of APC’s  Muhammadu Buhari. One would not but wonder  how, or why, zoning suddenly became a taboo, especially to a party like the PDP, which not only used to glamorise its originating  zoning to further cohere Nigeria, but actually has it emblazoned in its constitution. Nobody is saying that those who have made a habit of  contesting every  presidential election, over the years, should not insist on throwing their hat into the ring. Rather, all the proponents of zoning are saying is that fair is fair, and that Nigeria, being a country of freeborns, and not a Sultanate or Sheikdom,  justice and equity must simply be a sine qua non of our inter relationships. Only hegemons should be seen thinking otherwise. Even when the campaign against zoning has not become as vociferous in the North as to see respected elders like Professor Ango Abdullahi join , my last two articles on these pages  very strongly doubted the fidelity of APC’s then assumed zoning of the presidency to the South; a doubt which I based on the premise of the North’s perpetual love of power and their fear that no elected Southern president can retain  all the inequities of the past seven years. I speak here of  inequities that have ignited the fissiparous tendencies we see in every part of the country. I wondered to no end how any patriot, group or cabal,  would like to see Nigeria continue on its present trajectory of unworkability. That the APC leadership is not sincere has now  been  confirmed by the latest wonder from the party. As reported in several newspapers this past week,  the party has now, like it was talking to school children, “ordered its presidential aspirants to sign a   ‘Letter of Withdrawal’ which is attached to its nomination form before  they could submit their nomination papers”. The withdrawal letter, addressed to the party Chairman, must also be signed before a Commissioner of Oath/Public Notary before submission”. This is, without a doubt, a booby trap to, again,  force a candidate on the party. I believe it should interest Nigerians to see the wanna be presidential cretins who would sign such a degrading document. Whoever did, would merely have shown himself an unreconstructed lackey and agent of the cabal that has, for so long, controlled affairs in the party and, Nigerians must mentally put them in an eternal BLACK BOOK.   Retrieving the Philosophy in the ‘Doctor of Philosophy…     Malami and official conflict of interest     Northern elders double down on zoning   I can barely wait to see the presidential pretenders(PP) who would sign the ingratiating form. It is a big shame that a post Buni- led APC National Working Committee, which one considered the very worst, could, in fact, be more disoriented. If the cabal didn’t provide me N100M to become a contestant – as many now believe happened – wouldn’t it be idiotic to now expect me to self – exclude by signing such a moronic undertaking? However, what opponents of zoning must  realise is that the last seven years have been such a learning curve for Nigerian that voting at the next presidential election will be determined less by political party affiliation and far more by how people have been collectively impacted during the Buhari administration. I shall, for instance, like to see the PDP deceive itself into thinking that  it could garner those jumbo votes it has always received from both the Southsouth and the Southeast if its presidency is zoned to the North. On the other hand, it will be interesting to see what fate awaits APC, with a Northern presidential  candidate’s in those parts of  even the same North where indegenes have been  treated worse than  foreigners; with thousands needlessly killed, their houses burnt, lands seized, village names changed, and the people’s turned to destitutes, packed, in numbers in IDP camps, but yet told to learn to live happily with their neighbours. The Buhari administration has, indeed, been a learning curve, and it is time our Northern compatriots realise that the  basis of zoning is nothing besides justice and equity. Where these are non existent, people are merely turned into flotsam, and jetsam, in  their own fatherland where foreign Fulani herdsmen, of whatever age, can carry AK 47  to maim, kill or kidnap, but with no questions ever asked. There’s no way such iniquity can last because it is too much in your eye. These are the reasons why, first, for political parties,  and for Nigeria itself, the 2023 election will be very consequential. It will, indeed, be a watershed. It will help open eyes, and put an end to the “monkey dey work, baboon dey chop” philosophy that has ruled our country like forever. ,No single Nigerian is more Nigerian than the other irrespective of office   or status. If APC will, therefore, not be like the proverbial dog that wont hear the hunter’s horn because it just must get  lost, then  it must permit itself to profit from the following  wise counsel of Rotimi Akeredolu, the Ondo state governor: “It is the turn of the southern part of the country to produce the next president and the party leadership should have no difficulty in making pronouncements on this very important issue just as it has fixed various fees for the purchase of forms. This must be done without delay”.  “We must not keep our party men and women guessing on the position of the leadership of the party.  “No statement must suggest, even remotely, that the party harbours certain sentiments which may predispose it to consider throwing the contest open. This is certainly not the time for equivocation  as the  current democratic dispensation is anchored on an unwritten convention that is driven by a principle of equity, and we must do nothing capable of tilting the delicate balance against the established arrangement which guarantees peace and promotes trust”. Wise words, indeed, but some people are trying to be clever by half, and it’s like Nigerians are about to see why a man who showed no interest, whatever, in contesting for the chairmanship of the APC,  emerged its National Chairman. But as the Yoruba would say: oun to wa lehin ofa, o ju oje lo, that is, what comes  after 120 is far more than 140.