David Adeleke aka Davido, Teni Makanaki and Simi shone like bright stars when they took the Glo Battle of The Year stage at different times to thrill entertainment lovers and guests at the finale. Guests of the Glo Battle of The Year finale were treated to an evening of dance, music, and comedy as Globacom held the Nigeria National Finals on Saturday. The mega live event attracted dance lovers at the venue anticipating an evening of unlimited entertainment hours before the show officially began. Teni Makanaki was the first act of the night.The beefy singer entertained the live audience with a mix of her hit songs. As the Bgirls group showcased their talent, songstress, Simi, appeared on the stage to thrill the audience with the rendition of her hit single ‘Woman.’ She went on to entertain the audience with some of her hit tunes while getting the stage set for Davido. The biggest act of the night was Davido, who arrived on the stage in a boisterous mood.   Kizz Daniels quits smoking on birthday     Niger: Tension as Governor Bello, others eye Senate seats     Enugu North: Challenger rocks boat over Ugwuanyi’s bid   Kicking off his performance with some of his old tunes, the 29-year-old singer left the audience asking for more after about 20minutes of performance. The grand finale featured the Bboy, Bgirls, and Breakdance Crew final dance battles. Topping the list of winners is the 619 crew with a prize of N9m and a Toyota Hiace bus valued at over N25m. For the Afro Dance segment, Israel Monday emerged the winner and smiled home with N1.5m while Angela Anthony came second with a prize of N750,000. In the same vein, the Popping category had Isibo David Odigie emerging winner to smile home with the sum of N1.5m while Akhigbe Richard came second and got prize money of N750,000. For the Locking category, Michael Olanrewaju won to get prize money of N1.5m while Odoh Emmanuel came second to get a sum of N750,000 as prize money. The Krump category had Charles Ekwem emerging winner to go home with N1.5m and Gifty Ephraim coming second with N750,000 prize money.