International promoter and CEO of Oosha Empire, Badmus Akeem O aka Baddyoosha has treated residents of Dubai, United Arab Emirates to the singing prowess of Olamide and Asake. It was the very first time the duo performed together on stage outside the shores of Nigeria. The show turned out to be a profound success, as the crowd cheered and chanted for the treat of seeing their two favourites together on stage. The singers merged their crafts to deliver a superlative performance that nearly brought down the roof. The show, which took place at the Club Vice, Ramme Dream Hotel, Business Bay, Dubai, was made possible by Oosha Empire owned by Baddyoosha, the Chief Executive Officer of the company.   Summer body without summer money worthless-Cubana Chief…     I never slept with your friend, ex-husband replies Kaffy     Simi, Adekunle celebrate daughter at two   The MC on the night was MC Tex while the music policy was provided by DJ Enimoney and DJ Flava. It was an eclectic night of entertainment spruced with many side attractions and made all the more exhilarating by the chemistry of the two musical acts. In the month of March, Baddyoosha through his entertainment promotion company, Oosha Empire took four Nigerian musical artists, including Reminisce, Bella Shmurda, Small Doctor and Zinoleesky to Dubai to perform at different locations in the Emirates. Over the years, Baddyoosha has been at the forefront of promoting Nigerian music and artists, taking them to different destinations across the world. He has also discovered many faceless talents and transformed them into a force to reckon with in the industry. Fondly referred to as ‘Daddy Street’, he’s been instrumental to the success of many popular street artistes ruling the scene now. He is a businessman, first and foremost, who owns a audio and visual equipment company in Dubai known as Oosha Empire Audio and Visual Equipment Company. He’s also an International promoter and a musician with over 10 singles to his credit.