In the coming years, planned new cable investment could exceed $10 billion from 2022-2024, Research firm TeleGeography has said. According to its Submarine Cable Map and Africa Telecom Map, which provided insight into 486 cable systems and 1,306 landings globally, it noted that investment is expected to continue across all global routes. Following three years (2016-2018) where new subsea cable spending exceeded $2.2 billion, annual investment started to fluctuate in 2019. TeleGeography projects that subsea cable spending will strengthen as hyperscalers shift their position from generating demand to generating supply. “Our research has shown constant advancement year-on-year, as pressure for bandwidth continues to grow. Content providers’ international bandwidth growth has accelerated as of late. Companies like Meta, Microsoft, and Netflix have millions of users who are driving up demand every day,” Research Director at TeleGeography, Alan Mauldin, said.   Bundle: crypto flourishes despite hurdles     Enhancing SMEs’ capacity in food production     Five years after, AMCON’s intervention in Arik Air yet…   These new designs include cables with a combined construction cost of $12 billion that entered service between 2016 and last year. Every major subsea route saw new cables deployed during this timeframe. The global telecom market research and consulting firm published the new Submarine Cable Map and Africa Telecom Map for the year with support from Telecom Egypt. TeleGeography’s regional Africa Telecom Map highlighted 71 cable systems connected to Africa that are currently active or under construction. The map covers used bandwidth, internet capacity, pricing trends, and content provider investment in both cable systems and cloud data centers. Broadband and mobile penetration rates for each country are also included in the main projection. “The value of regionalising our maps is that we can explore the trends in greater depth. For example, we can see in our latest regional map of Africa that Europe remains the dominant location for traffic exchange out of the continent and 80 per cent of international bandwidth from African countries connects to facilities in Europe,” said Mauldin. Notable cables featured in this new design include the African submarine cable consortium project 2Africa, which will extend 45,000 kilometres and link 33 countries in Africa, the Middle East, and Europe. This new cable could enter service as soon as 2023. Also included is Google’s private cable Equiano, which will initially link Portugal, Nigeria, Namibia, South Africa, Togo, and St. Helena, but could expand to many other countries.