Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor Godwin Emefiele has said he’s awaiting God’s intervention on his participation in the 2023 presidency. He said he was yet to decide whether to contest or not. The CBN governor spoke barely 24 hours after a group of his friends and farmers purchased the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential nomination form for him. Responding to the outrage against his continued stay in office after the group picked the form to enable him contest, Emefiele said he was yet to decide whether to accept the Expression of Interest and Nomination forms for the contest. In a series of tweets on Saturday, the CBN boss thanked his supporters for their gesture but noted should he decide to run, he would buy the forms from his lifelong savings. Emefiele said: “I am humbled by the growing interest of those asking that I run for the Office of President in the 2023 general elections: I have not come to that decision.   Abdulmumin Jibrin dumps APC     Ezekwesili to Emefiele: resign immediately     Lagos leads with applicants as 69,828 sit for unity school…   “I note and salute the sacrifices of those farmers and patriots going as far as raising personal funds and offering me Presidential Nomination Forms: I thank them most profusely. “However, should I answer their calls and decide to seek presidential nomination, I will use my own hard-earned savings from over 35 years of banking leadership to buy my own Nomination Forms, without proxies in an open and transparent manner in full compliance with the laws and Constitution of The Federal Republic of Nigeria. “And should I not run for elected office, I will continue to serve and sacrifice for the good people of Nigeria under the able leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari. “This is a serious decision that requires God’s Divine intervention: in the next few days. The Almighty will so direct.” The APC has fixed next Tuesday for submission of completed forms and accompanying documents. The screening is slated for Saturday May 14, 2022.