Sign language interpretation has been described as one way to turn round the nation’s dwindling economy as well as reduce the escalating unemployment rate among university graduates in the country. Making this disclosure recently was the Lagos State Commissioner for Education, Folashade Adefisayo. The Commissioner spoke at the official launch of Sign Language in Staff Schools (SLISS) by Mercy Adesubomi Priestly Foundation in conjunction with University of Lagos. Adefisayo, who was represented by the Director, Special Education Unit, Ministry of Education, Mr Azeez Aiyu noted that as a sign language expert, there are many ample opportunities at a number of places such as religious houses, media organizations, schools as well as other corporate organizations. He said sign language as a universal language, remain one of the lucrative courses that can transform life within a short period because of its current high demands in Nigeria   Consumer awards: GTCO, MTN, others top in online voting     Nigerian startup lifts Africa’s automotive industry with…     Peace Mass Transit drivers get refresher course on highway…   Commending the convener of the project, Anuoluwapo Priestly Adesubomi for the laudable project, Aliyu said the project compliments what Lagos state has been advocating for. He revealed that Lagos state, through Lagos State Office for Disability Affairs (LASODA), recently organised sign language for bankers to enable their front desk officers understand and communicate with sign language. He said, “As a sign language expert, you’ll have ample opportunity of being everywhere, given the number of TV and media houses that are in Nigeria today, each TV station has no fewer than 24 programmes in a day. So it means a minimum of five Sign language interpreters required to interpret those programmes and multiply five by the number of TV stations in Nigeria. “Now we are in the University of Lagos, you know the number of faculties and departments and in each department, there will be different levels of classes. So at each class, there is supposed to be a standing Sign language interpreter because the hearing impaired also wants to learn all the courses. “So sign language interpretation is becoming more important in our society. If you and I learn sign language, no matter how the numbers are, you’ll definitely have a place to interpret and this will also reduce the number of unemployment rates among the job seekers,” Aliyu further explained.