Jose Santos Peseiro is expected to lead the Super Eagles on the United States tour as the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) yesterday announced the appointment of the Portuguese  as the new head coach of the senior men national team.   Also, NFF announced that former Nigeria international forward, Finidi George will be first assistant to Peseiro, while Salisu Yusuf will be second assistant as well as Head Coach of the CHAN and U-23 National teams while Usman Abdallah is third assistant.   Apart from the US tour in which the Super Eagles will face Mexico and Ecuador, Peseiro will also be in charge of the team when the Eagles start their AFCON qualifiers campaign against Sierra Leone next month. According to a statement issued by NFF, the appointment of Peseiro is with immediate effect and it is subject to the signing of agreed terms between the NFF and Peseiro.   Eagles Watch: Osimhen’s goal seals Napoli top three…     Oshoala wins La Liga top scorer r award     Bassey eyes Europa League title for Rangers   Peseiro, 62, is a Portuguese who played as a striker in his days and has wide and varied experience coaching top Clubs and National Teams across four different continents, namely Europe, Asia, Africa and South America. An educationist with a degree in physical education/sports sciences, Peseiro has top-level coaching qualifications/training, and has coached at Sporting Lisbon, FC Porto, Panathinaikos, Rapid Bucharest, Sporting Braga, Victoria Gumaraes, Al-Hilal, Al-Wahda, Al-Ahly Cairo, Sharjah FC and Real Madrid (assistant coach during the Galacticos era), as well as serving as Head Coach of the Saudi Arabian and Venezuelan National Teams. Peseiro will take charge of the three –time African champions when the team slug it out with Mexico and Ecuador ‘A’ Teams in prestige friendlies. The Eagles will tango with the El Tri at the AT & T Stadium in Dallas, State of Texas on Saturday, May 28 before flying to New Jersey to confront Ecuador at the Red Bull Arena in Harrison on Thursday, June 2. The federation also confirmed Eboboritse Uwejamomere as the Super Eagles match analyst while former Nigeria international, Ike Shorounmu will be the goalkeepers’ trainer.