Islam is a religion of peace. So, we were taught in school. Ahmadiyya College, now known as Anwar-ul Islam College, Agege, Lagos, though founded by Muslims did not place premium on religion. The school was and is still open to Christians and Muslims. Of course, as a Muslim school, Islamic Religious Knowledge (IRK) and Arabic were taught. Arabic was not a compulsory subject. Just as Yoruba and French were not compulsory. But because of the adventurous nature of children, we sampled all the subjects. It was pure joy to see Christians and Muslims alike reciting alif, ba, ta, sa… the Arabic alphabets like the a, b, c… that we first learnt in primary school. Religion? Who cared about that. It was a non-issue among us and our teachers led by example in that regard. A pupil was treated based on his character and not his religion or ethnicity. If in a secondary school, pupils could live together harmoniously despite professing different faith, it should be expected that things would be better in a higher institution, except we are saying we are sliding backwards. In the larger society too, religion and ethnicity were no issues. Muslims and Christians,  Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba lived together,  worked together, played together and ate together. All of a sudden, things changed. We no longer saw ourselves as brothers and sisters. We began to see ourselves as enemies and everybody kept to him or herself. This was where societal fabric began to tear. Parents warned their children against going to their neighbours’ houses. This was something that was not common then.Common, how? It was not even there. It was unheard of for a parent to do such a thing when people lived together as one big family. Now, we are divided by our faith, which ironically should be a binding factor. Christianity and Islam share many things in common. Both religions believe in the sanctity of human life and warn against taking a person’s life for no just reason. A life for a life, the religions say. Meaning anybody who kills a person without justification must pay with his own life. This is different from the mosaic law of an eye for an eye. A life can only be taken for a crime committed and for which the perpetrator has been found liable.   2023: Ambition, God and man     All for a ticket!     The Jonathan bubble   In effect, the person must have undergone trial and be availed of every opportunity to defend himself. But as men some of us like to play god. We believe that by so doing we are more pious than others. Faith is not a show thing, it is a heart and mind thing. No wonder, the scripture says man looks at the outward appearance, God looks at the heart. Fighting for God does not make you holier than the other person if it is not for a just cause. Jihad is not waged for the sake of it, it is waged to build a better society. In his days, the Prophet waged Jihad against idolaters and the enemies of Islam. A good Muslim can also wage an internal Jihad to make himself a better person. It is not Jihad to kill someone in the name of Allah because he said or did something that is wrong. That is criminality. A man cannot be the complainant, the prosecutor and the judge in his own case. Our society has since moved beyond that stage. Those who killed Deborah Emmanuel were not doing Allah’s bidding. They were only consumed by their belief that by so doing, they were waging a war that will earn them paradise in the hereafter! To be consumed by religion is a pitiable thing. When people carry religion too far, society is at risk. We have seen not once, not twice, but on several occasions, what religious crisis can cause. Villages and properties were destroyed and people maimed and killed on the flimsy ground of doing things which ordinarily should not attract any attention. Why was Deborah killed? What did she say about the Prophet to have earned her that kind of death – stoning and burning in full public glare? The so-called devotees who carried out that dastardly act should go and read the Quran and Hadiths again. When can a Muslim woman be publicly stoned or flogged? It is when she is found to have committed adultery. Deborah was not a Muslim nor did she subscribe to the Islamic law of Sharia. She was killed for speaking out against the abuse of a forum created for the advancement of learning at the Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto. When did it become a crime to express one’s view, no matter how objectionable it may be to others – and in a higher institution, for that matter. What kind of citadel of learning is that where the other view cannot be tolerated? What kind of teaching is going on there? The teachers must share part of the blame for what those students did. What happened in Sokoto on May 12 is horrendous and heartwrenching. It is unfortunate and sad. It shows that things have gone out of control in the country. The killers of Deborah must not go scot-free. It is written in all the holy books that those who kill for no just reason must be killed. They should get their just deserts after their day in court. My heart goes out to the Emmanuels and may their daughter find rest in the Lord’s bosom.