Former Sokoto Commissioner for Finance Hon. Abdussamad Dasuki has urged Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) delegates to vote for Sokoto Governor Aminu Tambuwal at the presidential primary on May 28 and 29. Dasuki said Tambuwal had not only demonstrated ample possession of the qualities Nigeria needed in a President at this time in its history, he had also shown that he had capacity to win the presidency for the party. Speaking with newsmen after emerging as PDP candidate for Kebbe Tambuwal Federal Constituency, Dasuki said: “Governor Tambuwal has demonstrated the character and will Nigeria needs in a president, especially at this time when the country is in dire need of a unifier and transformational leader.” Dasuki also recalled the recent claim by Senator Dino Melaye that former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, had an assured 11 million votes, which he scored in the 2019 presidential election won by President Muhammadu Buhari. Dasuki said that was the lowest vote recorded by any PDP presidential candidate since 1999. “That claim of Atiku having 11 votes in his pouch is bogus and misleading. The truth is that when compared to the winning votes of past presidents, it clearly showed that Atiku lowered the standard record by past PDP presidential candidates. “For instance, in 1999, Obasanjo beat Falae with 18 million to 11 million votes; 2003, Obasanjo defeated Buhari with 24 million to 12 million votes; 2007, Yar’Adua defeated Buhari with 24 million to six million votes; and 2011, Jonathan beat Buhari by 22 million to 12 million votes. “Also in 2015, Jonathan scored 12 million votes compared to Buhari’s 15milion votes. Even at that, the worst electoral performance by any PDP presidential candidate before 2019 was better than the vote recorded by Atiku. This is a minus for his political record and shouldn’t be used as a political point by his campaigners.” Dasuki recalled that when Atiku flew the flag of the defunct Action Congress (AC) in 2007, he recorded a paltry 2 million votes compared to PDP Yar’Adua’s 24 million votes.   Etiebet to Amaechi: Akwa Ibom APC delegates are for you     Hayatu-deen: Obasanjo transformed Nigeria even as military…     Nigerian women are underrepresented-It’s time for change   He said unlike Atiku, Tambuwal had always won all the elections he contested irrespective of political party. Dasuki further noted: “In his campaign, Tambuwal has diligently engaged the subject of restructuring, devolution of power and true federalism in general. “This is the fundamental change the country needs now that the current political structure is failing at an alarming rate, and we all can see it. He has engaged this subject quite studiously, even when many of the aspirants are stylishly avoiding it. “This is beyond mere stump speaking, plenty of which we have seen in recent times,” he said, adding, Tambuwal has shown capacity through his political antecedents, “and we can take his promise of change seriously because he has demonstrated overtime that he has the capacity and will to fulfil his promises.” According to him: “Perhaps, this is why Tambuwal has been on a winning streak since he started to participate in elections.” Tracing the political experiences of the PDP presidential hopeful, Dasuki said integrity and political sagacity were distinct features in Tambuwal’s record. “His ascension to Speaker of the House of Representatives happened on the basis of bipartisan support by the ruling party and the opposition, and his tenure as Speaker marked a turning point in the history of legislative relationships in the country,” Dasuki said, adding that he helped restore cordiality between the two chambers, which has been sustained till today. “That trend continued in his state, when as governor in 2019 he was able to run a very successful government with an opposition House of Assembly and Speaker, proving doomsayers wrong. “This is uncommon political sagacity, which I think Tambuwal would take even further if he emerges president of this country”.