Holding on to hostages as human shield by terrorists is prolonging anti-terror war, President Muhammadu Buhari said yesterday. “The bandits are just pushing their luck; but this is only for a while before they are finally crushed. They are using civilians as human shields, thereby making it difficult to confront them directly,” the President told some residents of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The residents, led by the FCT Minister, Mohammed Musa Bello, were at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, to pay Sallah homage on the President. According to the President, bandits and terrorists, unlike professional soldiers, do not respect the rules of engagement and therefore, could resort to harming their hostages when under threat. Buhari said the Service chiefs and the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) have the responsibility of locating the bandits’ in their hideouts for elimination. The IGP, Usman Alkali, announced the deployment of surveillance choppers yesterday. On why caution must be applied in taking out terrorists without collateral damages to the innocent, the President said: “They don’t care about killing their hostages if they come under attack. It’s a delicate situation that requires wisdom, caution and also patience. Any rescue operation that results in the death of any hostage cannot be deemed a success. “The government doesn’t want this kind of tragic outcome. It’s a complex situation that demands proper handling. The primary objective of any rescue operation is to free the hostages safely, unharmed and alive. “Let me make it clear, however, that defeating the terrorists and bandits require more than weapons; we also need human intelligence, which is necessary to frustrate terrorist plans. “The people and community leaders should help our security officials with information about the activities or movements of criminal groups.” Calling on Nigerians to make their communities hostile for criminals to live in, the President warned: ”By protecting criminals from exposure, you are endangering your own security and the security of your own community. No criminal can thrive in an environment where he faces the risks of exposure by the people.” He said a stronger synergy between security agencies and communities would make a huge difference in defeating banditry and terrorism. Allaying fears that bandits could grow to yet another big challenge in the mould of Boko Haram, the President assured his administration will not allow such to happen. “This administration has allocated huge resources to improve the capacity of our security forces by timely giving them adequate equipment and improving the welfare of personnel to boost their morale.   Reschedule debts, get more loans, IMF tells Nigeria     Campaign for APC, PDP presidential tickets hot up     Disqualified PDP presidential aspirants face panel Tuesday   “Abuja has witnessed remarkable improvements in terms of security. In the past, terrorists had made it almost impossible to conduct our normal lives. Road barricades had overrun the capital city and people had to pray in fear because of the anxiety of terrorist attacks. No place in FCT was beyond the terrorist – not the United Nations Building, not the Police Headquarters. “But today, the situation is no longer so. We have significantly weakened and crippled the capabilities of the Boko Haram terrorists so much that they no longer have the ability to seize and occupy any Nigerian territory without being repelled by our gallant troops. “Of course, we can’t say that the terrorists are one hundred per cent destroyed, but we have destroyed their ability to seize our territory. “This improvement in terms of significantly weakening the enemy is necessary for finally defeating them. The rate at which the terrorists are giving up their weapons and surrendering to our troops is a significant and welcome development.” On the steps being made to secure freedom for the remaining passengers on attacked Abuja-Kaduna train, the President said he has directed the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) to coordinate rescue efforts from a situation room. The passengers were taking into captivity by terrorists who ambushed the Kaduna-bound train on March 28. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the President said the government would ensure the rescue of the hostages alive and unhurt. The Situation Room, the statement said, would provide more regular and detailed information to families. He noted that even as Muslims across the country are celebrating the end of the Ramadan fasting with joy, the fact that there are many other families, whose loved one are being held in captivity by criminal elements, was not lost on the administration. The president recalled that he had recently directed security agencies to effect the rescue of all hostages in all parts of the country. The statement reads: “As we celebrate this occasion with joy amidst friends and family members, we are fully conscious of the fact that many families in our country are in a state of fear and anxiety on account of the many captives held by terrorists against their will, including those taken away after the tragic bombing of the Abuja – Kaduna train. “I have directed security agencies to ensure quick and safe recovery of all victims of kidnapping. I urge the railway management to immediately set up a situation room for the coordination of the rescue mission and for a minute-by-minute engagement with the families of the captives.” He commended the FCT minister for ensuring the capital city is safe and attractive to prospective investors. He said: “It’s my pleasure to welcome you all to the presidential villa. As is the tradition, people pay homage to the President as part of the events to mark the Sallah celebration. “I value these kinds of visits because they afford me the opportunity to interact directly with the people or their representatives. I commend the FCT residents for living in peace and harmony for years since the capital officially came into being.”