On my upper left arm as on the arm of those of us who were born in the middle of the last century, there is a scar or to be accurate, in my case, two scars. This is as a result of the administration of a vaccine against small pox. In the case of those born roughly thirty years later, their own smaller scars are on their right arm and these were as a result of their encounter with a different vaccine, this time the BCG vaccine deployed against tuberculosis. In the case of the small pox vaccine, that exercise has been discontinued because on the  8th day of May 1980, the World Health Organisation announced to the world that this scourge had been eradicated and done away for good. Babies born today still have to endure the misery of the BCG vaccine because this particular scourge is still as active as ever and continues to kill a large number of people in places all over the world including Nigeria. Until a little over ten thousand years ago when mankind somehow discovered the science of agriculture, man roamed around in little bands continuously scouring the earth for sustenance. At this time the threat of transferring microbial infections between people on a large scale was minimal because there was always quite a substantial distance between the roaming bands. Should one band pick up an infection, it circulated within the band and did not get across to other groups so that the threat of epidemics, not to talk of a pandemic was simply non-existent. Eventually, humans discovered agriculture and their roaming days came to an end for most of them and were replaced by a sedentary life style which for all that, guaranteed a constant supply of food both from tilling the soil and using the animals which they had domesticated as ready sources of food. For the first time in the history of man, he could not only stay in a safe environment but had the facility to climb to the top of the food chain and be spared the danger of being hunted for food by other animals which were better equipped than man to kill and eat prey, including man. There was therefore a massive improvement in the lot of the species which was now the master of all he surveyed. The constant availability of food encouraged man to gather in larger and larger numbers until the possibility of spreading infections on a large scale entered the equation and public health concerns became a feature of human existence. In addition to human proximity, humans now lived cheek to jowl with their domestic animals and began to acquire pathogens from them which is how for example, the dreaded tubercule which is the cause of tuberculosis crossed over from cattle to humans and much later down the line brought up the necessity of the administration of the BCG vaccines to neonates in an attempt to protect them from the awful and frequently fatal effects of tuberculosis.   2023 and the Nigerian progressives     Ekiti ’22: The inevitability of BAO’s victory for…     2023 Elections: The vindication of Nasir El-Rufai   Small pox has been infecting and killing men, women and children for more than five thousand years as some Egyptian mummies prepared from around that period showed the characteristic pock marks associated with small pox. Such has been the power of this contagion that it has been calculated that no less than 10% of all human fatalities over this period has been caused by small pox. To situate things in proper perspective, 300 million people died from small pox infection in the 20th century alone, even though no infection was reported in the last twenty years of that century. The point to be made here is that small pox infection is related to the spread of civilisation along extensive trade routes both on land and along rivers so that it seems that this infection was the price that mankind has had to pay for the comforts of civilisation, starting from the Chinese some five thousand years ago and spreading to the rest of the world over a period close to five millennia. No other infection has harvested people in the large scale manner of small pox. To start with, three of every ten people infected with small pox died within two weeks or so following the onset of symptoms of the infection. This means that this pathogen extracted of a mortality rate of 30%. The enormity of this mortality rate can be compared to that associated with Covid at less than 3%.All those who had the misfortune of surviving this infection displayed signs of the encounter in the shape of deep, disfiguring pock marks and in many cases cowry shell like eyes which had been blinded by the pox. To describe the visitation of small pox as a mere misfortune is to be unpardonably guilty of an understatement. When the Yoruba peoples of South west Nigeria first encountered this terrible condition some five hundred years ago, they were so impressed by its ferocity that they elevated it to the status of a God which was worshiped with extreme fear and trepidation, so great that it surpassed the fear of Ogun and Sango put together. Sopona the implacable God of pestilence was put in a class by itself and worshipped in its own inimitable style according to its exceptionalism. The God of small pox was called by many names and yet it had no name.  It was known by many names all of them used  betraying the power of this god which brought so much sorrow, death, disfigurement and suffering in its wake. When people made their supplication to Obaluaiye, Oluode, Olofin they were addressing the same deity and had no connection to the Olu which early Yoruba Christian coverts appropriated from the Yoruba pantheon of deities and conferred on their freshly minted God. Those who were slain by the god were not mourned, instead thanks giving offerings were offered to the god even as all their worldly goods were forfeited to the devotees of Sopona which made a very great impression on the people. Any visitation of the God led to deadly consequences in terms of both bodily and economic destruction. It made such an impression that those of the people who were taken away as slaves across the Atlantic took the worship of Sopona with them. At least in Cuba, December 17 has been set aside for the annual propitiation of Sopona which has acquired the name of St. Lazarus, the man who was raised from the dead by Jesus after he had been entombed for all of four days. The choice of a man who rose from the dead to be made the figurehead for Sopona is quite fitting in the sense that surviving an encounter with small pox could be considered to be tantamount to rising from the dead. There is no doubt that the history of the world would have been much different from what it is but for small pox. For example, it has been shown that the mighty Roman empire was finally finished off by a small pox epidemic but the number of deaths caused by the Roman epidemic pales into piddling insignificance by horrors inflicted on the New World when small pox was introduced to the Western hemisphere following the intrusion of Europeans spear headed by Christopher Columbus in 1492. The indigenous peoples of that region had no previous encounter with small pox and this being the case, had no natural immunity to it. Both in the North and South, indigenous Americans were mown down like grass by small pox which is why a few hundred Spaniards riding on horses were able to seize the whole of South America from the owners of the land. It has been calculated that the populations inhabiting the New World was reduced by 90% in next to no time, clearing the land of people who had lived in that region for more than ten millennia. It was this rapid die-off that encouraged the Spaniards to take up the dastardly option proposed by a priest, of importing slaves from Africa in order to exploit the riches of their newly conquered territories which had been won for them more by the dreaded god of small pox than their valour on the battle field. For Africa and West Africa in particular, small pox was a double edged sword which over the centuries following the European incursion into the New World continued to wreak havoc on the land. In the first place, this infection wreaked havoc on Africans in Africa as shown by the fear that it generated among the Yorubas who turned it into a conquering god in a futile attempt to ameliorate its awful effects. It is not to be forgotten however that seven out of ten people who were infected survived this ordeal and thereafter became immune to it because there was never a re-infection. This meant that over the years, the disease had become endemic in that region and unlike the indigenous Americans there was a large pool of people who had developed resistance to the infection. Once this fact had been established, the Europeans descended on Africa with uncontrolled ferocity and over the next three centuries and a half, transferred no less than twelve million Africans across the Atlantic and into slavery. It was the unpaid labour of these transported Africans that created the wealth which made the industrial revolution possible from the middle of the eighteenth century. As every schoolboy knows or should know, it was the search for raw materials and markets for manufactured goods that brought several European countries into the heart of Africa to create their nefarious colonies which have blighted our every existence in no uncertain manner since then.