NATIONAL Chairman of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), Prof Rufai Alkali said on Saturday that the two major political parties in the country, the All Progressives Congress and the People’s Democratic Party have both lost touch with the Nigerian people. Addressing his maiden Press Conference in Abuja, Prof Alkali the two parties were not interested in the advancing the welfare of Nigerians, but only interested in acquiring power. He said the NNPP was prepared to take over power and become the leading political party in the country and has already begun a rebuilding process that will see it move from being a third force in the country to the number one. Prof Alkali also disclosed that the Presidential candidate of the party will emerge after its presidential primary scheduled for Abuja on June 2. He said the NNPP has begun a process of repositioning itself as a force to reckon with in the political landscape of the country “by offering Nigerians an alternative platform to save Democracy and rescue the nation from the stranglehold of the two old, hegemonic and visionless political parties. He expressed confidence that in view of the massive support it has received and continue to receive from across the country, “we are very confident and optimistic that very soon and in no distant future it would move from its current ranking as the ‘third force’ to the top in Nigeria’s political space” The NNPP National Chairman said “we in the NNPP as social Democrats are desirous of opening the political space for all Nigerians. That was precisely why, in order to encourage the youths, women and people living with disabilities, the party announced zero Kobo for the purchase of the Expression of Interest Form and a 50% discount for the Nomination Form.   We can’t afford to remain in opposition in 2023, Atiku…     ‘APGA, victim of political kidnapping, brigandage’     Bayelsa delegates’ll support pro-restructuring…   “This is a complete departure from those plutocrats who are asking Nigerians to cough out over N100 million just to purchase a piece of paper whose value is no better than the value of the paper upon which the humongous amount was written. “It is on record that NNPP is the only party in Nigeria that has offered the youths less than 35 years of age fifty percent discount for the purchase of nomination forms. In the same vein, we have started the process of rebuilding our structures across country. As I stated earlier, we started from the wards to the Local Governments, to States, to the Zones and finally at the national level. We now have fresh ward structures all over the country.” He said the party would do its best to ensure the development of Nigeria to a higher level on all levels, saying “Nigerians are tired and are therefore looking for a better option. “We promise Nigerians that we shall do everything possible to ensure that every Nigerian is carried along. This party is all about correcting past and current mistakes and with your support, we shall achieve a better Nigeria. I can assure you that NNPP will soon be the number one force in the country.” Prof. Alkali said the party will shock Nigerians in the 2023 general election and address the problems currently facing the country when it comes into government. He assured Nigerians that the NNPP administration would give every Nigerian a sense of belonging as nobody would be treated as a second class citizen or discriminated or marginalized on the basis of tribe, religion or sex.