Stakeholders have commended Nigerian Breweries Plc for its decision to commence civil works on the expansion of Ama Brewery in Enugu. The project is estimated at N56 billion and is expected to boost the firm’s capacity from 2.7 million hectolitres to 4.8million hectolitres in the first phase and up to 5.4 million hectolitres in the second phase. Some key stakeholders who lauded the expansion project include the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Enugu State Government, and the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade & Investment. For instance, at the recent inauguration of the project, CBN Governor Mr. Godwin Emefiele praised the company for the expansion. He noted that the apex regulator would continue to come up with policies that would improve the non-oil sectors as a means of cushioning the impact of the global shock the economy. Represented by the Director, Trade and Exchange, Dr. Ozoemena Nnaji, Emefiele urged the company to take advantage of the several intervention programmes put in place by the bank for further expansion. He assured that CBN remained committed to collaborating with the company in the collective quest to increase the contribution of the non-oil sector to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Also, Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, who was represented by Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Simon Ortuanya, commended Nigerian Breweries for taking the bold step to expand its brewing capacity. Ugwuanyi said the investment demonstrated the company’s commitment to the economy and Enugu State, adding that when completed, this project would enhance the industrial growth of Enugu and Nigeria while improving the company’s market share. The Minister of Industry, Trade & Investment, Otunba   Utomi: Youths crucial to economic advancement     Osinbajo seeks digitalisation of tax administration     Heritage Bank uses technology to deepen financial inclusion   Niyi Adebayo, commended the company’s management for its foresight and determination in embarking on the massive project which would, no doubt, mark a significant milestone in local content achievement. Adebayo, who was represented by the Deputy Director, Industrial  Department of the ministry, Mrs. Olumuyiwa Ade-Ajayi, said the company has, over the years, demonstrated immense capacity to support the government’s commitment towards local content, as could be seen in Nigeria’s economic transformation. On his part, the Chief Executive Officer, Heinenken, Mr. Dolf van den Brink, stated that the investment in Ama Brewery was a further demonstration of the long-standing history and relationship between Heineken and Nigeria, which dates back to 1946. “Based on our longstanding role in the past and present, Heineken is investing 112 million Euros in this important Ama Brewery Expansion project because we see ourselves as playing a major role in Nigeria’s future. We are proud to be part of the growth and development of this great state and country.” he said. The President, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), represented by the Director-General, Mr. Segun Ajayi-Kadir, lauded the company for its resourcefulness in kicking off the civil works for the expansion of Ama Brewery. According to Ajayi-Kadir, this bold move by the company demonstrates the strategic thinking of the board and management of the company and its firm belief in the boundless possibilities in the Nigerian market. Also, the Acting Executive Secretary and Chief Executive Officer, Nigeria Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), Mr. Emeka Offor, commended the company for embarking on such a massive investment at a time when the world is experiencing economic shocks occasioned by the global COVID-19 pandemic. He said it was a sign of NB Plc’s resilience and determination to overcome the odds, with focus, innovation and good management.