Former Nigeria internationals  Christian Chukwu  and Sylvanus Okpala believed Portuguese  coach Jose Peseiro  must be adventurous in his approach  in order to fashion out a virile  Super Eagles. Following  the Super Eagles 2-1 loss to  El Tri of Mexico at the AT&T Stadium in Dallas on Saturday night, the duo  said  the new coach must bend backwards  to ensure proper integration of the local-based players  with their  foreign-based counterparts , adding  it’s about time  to  set up a brand new national team. “We should not be satisfied with just playing friendly matches and we  must show  more seriousness once  they  put on the  national colours,” Okpala, a 1980  Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) winner told  Lagos-based Sports radio Brila FM. “I hope  they  can show  more seriousness  especially  in the next game against Ecuador.” Chukwu,  the 1980 AFCON-winning captain and for  national team coach, said  Peseiro must  as a matter of fact  make the home-based players  the fulcrum  of the Super Eagles henceforth, adding  players  from the domestic league have the strength in depth to boost the national team.   ITTF Championship : Bello reveals Africa Cup’s success…     Transfers: Napoli  set July 8 deadline for Osimhen     Torino slam ₦4.5billion price tag on Ola Aina   With as many as eight players listed for the two-match tour of the USA,  Chukwu  said  Peseiro should be bold by fielding  them against Ecuador on Thursday. “ I think we need to see more of the home-based players  in the Super Eagles  and they can even start all of them against Ecuador and see how  they can cope; and  we need them  in order to build a new strong  Super Eagles.” Meanwhile, Super Eagles assistant coach Usman Abdallah has described  the atmosphere in the team’s camp in the US as friendly amongst  the players and officials. “The atmosphere in the camp is fantastic,” the Katsina United coach told NationSport. “The new players are blending well with the old ones; the local players are doing very well and I’m very impressed with the speed of integration; fantastic, “he noted.