Organisers of the World Athletics Elite Label Okpekpe International 10km road race have set Saturday 7th May and Friday 20th May as deadlines for submission of completed registration forms for the eighth edition of the event scheduled to hold on Saturday 28th May in Okpekpe, Edo State. Race Director, Zack Amodu , in a statement yesterday, said that international athletes outside the invited ones wishing to participate in the race have until May 7 to submit their forms while local athletes must submit their entry papers two weeks later. “Entry forms and other documents must be received by the deadline dates and entries mailed after the dates will not be accepted,” he said. Amodu revealed entry forms are still available at the Marathon office at the Teslim Balogun stadium in Lagos and the LOC office at the Samuel Ogbemudia stadium in Benin.   Oshodi chairs ITTF World Ranking Group     2022 WAFCON: Falcons’ captain Ebi holds no Bayana…     Dare brands Bayelsa wrestling industry of Nigeria   He said: “Intending runners can also register online by going to the Okpekpe road race website, ww.okpekperoadrace.com, and click on the registration link,’ he said and advised that they complete the application forms with duly certified medical report before confirmation can be given. “Collection of running number (bibs) starts on Tuesday May 21 and will run through to Friday May 27 at Fatima College in Auchi. It starts from 9am to 6pm daily except on Friday when it closes at 2pm. Registered runners are advised to collect their own running number in person,” added Amodu. Organisers, Pamodzi Sports Marketing. said participants will receive a running race vest, number bib, and chip while those who complete the 10km race right from the flag off at Apana road to the finish line in Okpekpe will receive medals and certificates. Okpekpe Road Race is organised in accordance with the rules and regulations of World Athletics and the Athletics Federation of Nigeria and all participants agree to abide by these rules and regulations and comply with all reasonable directions and decisions made by the officials and representatives of World Athletics and AFN.