Former Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) pensioners are on a special salary structure that is better than other pensioners. Executive Secretary (ES), Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD), Dr. Chioma Ejikeme made this known. In a statement entitled: “Clarification on the applicability of 33 per cent pension increase to the ex-PHCN retirees”, Ejikeme said the pensioners had been enjoying this privilege before the pension review. She said those who were in service were on one of the Harmonised Salary Structures of the Federal Public Service. The ES was, however, surprised  by the agitation by some pensioners, who claimed that PTAD has colluded with some “powerful individuals” to deprive them of the 33 per cent increment approved by the Federal Government in 2010.   63,728 RSA holders dump PFAs     Universal Insurance set for N10b recapitalisation     Pension complaints and solutions   She said the retired workers  were not entitled to the increment, but that they were only trying to arm-twist the Federal Government into paying them. President Muhammadu Buhari had approved the 9.7 per cent increase for ex-PHCN retirees under the Defined Benefit Scheme (DBS). Mrs Ejikeme said: “The President, Muhammadu Buhari, is very committed to pensioners’ welfare and has consistently demonstrated this by approving the payment of outstanding pension arrears and regular payment of monthly pensions. But we would like to state, unequivocally, that the National Salaries, Incomes & Wages Commission, the Federal Government agency responsible for policy statement on emoluments, including pensions, had directed via a letter of approval Ref: SWC/S/04/S.542/26 of 26th September 2014, that the retired staff of the defunct PHCN are not entitled to the pension increase of 33 per cent. “It should be noted that PHCN pensioners took the Federal Government to the National Industrial Court (NIC), Abuja on this issue. After several engagements, President Muhammadu Buhari approved the implementation of 9.7 per cent increase in the pensions of ex-PHCN retirees under the Defined Benefit Scheme (DBS). This approval was used as an out-of-court settlement to end to the suit at NIC, Abuja. “Following the approval by the President, via approval letter Ref:(SWC/S/04/S.557/III/546) of 7th May, 2021, the 9.7 per cent increment was implemented with effect from 1st June, 2016 and the arrears paid in December 2021 to eligible ex-PHCN retirees. “It is, therefore, preposterous and uncalled for that this group wants to conveniently forget the amicable agreement reached by parties and arm-twist the Federal Government to make claims on the 33 per cent pension increment.” She further stated that other related issues as it concern this group of pensioners have since been communicated to the coordinator of the Concerned PHCN Pensioners, Mr. Dunmoye Muritala Oladimeji, via a letter dated March 17, 2021 with Ref: (PTAD/PaPD/231/VolII/263). “PTAD will continue to give priorities to the welfare of Defined Benefit Scheme pensioners,” she added.