The Federal Government is making effort to deliver two units of 330 kV power transmission substations in Katsina and Kano states along with the transmission lines to raise power supply. Managing Director of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), Dr. Sule Abdulaziz, stated this while inspecting the 330/132/33kV Katsina Substation project and the Rimi Zakara Substation in Kano, at the instance of the Minister of Power, Engr. Abubakar D. Aliyu. Speaking at the Katsina Substation, Abdulaziz said the transformers and structures are in place at the Katsina Substation. He said on completion, the substation will improve the transmission of bulk power supply to Daura, Dutsinma, Kankara and Malumfashi Substations in the state. General Manager, Public Affairs, Mrs. Ndidi Mbah, in statement yesterday, quoted him as saying: “We are willing, and we want to ensure that we finish this substation within one year. We will also invite Mr. President to commission the substation” said Abdulaziz.   Petrol scarcity in Ondo over leadership crisis     Ex-lawmaker withdraws from assembly race     Nigeria Broadcasting Awards for October   The TCN head said the transmission line that will bring bulk supply to the substation is from Kano and was earlier affected by Right of Way issues.     “TCN and the government are collaborating on this, processes have been completed and the contractor will soon be back to site to finish his work and we will be able to commission this substation”. He noted that the substation facility has two units of 150MVA power transformers and two units of 60MVA power transformers. The representative of the contractor of the Katsina project, Mustapha Maihajjo, lauded the current administration for fast tracking the Katsina Substation project’s funding. He said: “Since the coming of this administration, we have been able to procure about 95% of all the equipment requirements for this project.”   He noted that shipment of the materials were earlier delayed by COVID-19, but were now on ground. The Special Assistant on Power and Energy to the Katsina State Governor, Mansur Ahmed Musa commended the Katsina Mega Substation project.