The final parts of the movie; “The Fall of the Roman Empire (1964)”, depicted a scene where the emperorship of Rome was being auctioned. At the fall of Emperor Commodus, a Roman Empire, gasping for breath, buffeted by a myriad of mortal dangers that threatened it’s corporate existence, was being offered to avaricious members of the ruling class in a bazaar like haggle that would see it’s rulership go to the highest bidder. Rome had been brought to that shocking and perilous impasse in just the space of a few years, under the stewardship of a man who would rather do any other thing, than rule purposefully. At a time, Rome needed a captain to always have the “conn” and dutifully steer its ship, Commodus was always invested in other distractions. A form of pernicious mildew, instead of improving on what he found, he exacerbated disaster and debilitated every good or manageable thing he met. To adduce parallels between the present Nigerian situation and the above-stated depiction of Rome would certainly not be far-fetched. As Nigeria gears up for the 2023 general elections, its ship of state, mired at a sorry impasse, is floundering, threatening to keel over. Its captain, is either seemingly forever hibernating in his cabin, or being rowed off on a skiff at any moment’s notice into distant horizons. Bereft of a purposeful captain at the helm, the beleaguered Nigerian ship, assailed serially by tempestuous winds has been left rudderless and at the mercy of all manner of grasping ship mates. As the unprecedented  deluge of disparate aspiring presidential “prospects” continue to swamp our sensibilities with a near perfect uniformity of delusional sound bites, sowing humongous amounts of “chicken change”, again almost uniformly sourced by their “court jesters” to buy forms – it does appear, ala, Rome, that the Nigerian presidency is to be haggled for in a “bazaar like” manner. And so, we must all be wary witnesses as these “sea mates”, left to their own devices, run amok, acquiring presidential “gold prospecting licenses”, pardon, nomination forms, amidst the acute deprivation and misery of the larger populace that call the poverty capital of the world home! Godwin Emefiele, like other ship mates, is emboldened to act out any script that meets his fancy, firm in the knowledge that the captain will not be “aware”. Whereas majority of those seeking the presidency, obviously seem deluded or playing the local version of lottery “kalokalo”, and can be ignored, the sheer gall of a sitting governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), going to court to submit that he should not be barred from seeking the presidency because he is a public servant and not a political appointee, beggars belief and demands condemnation. To bastardize the exalted and constitutionally prescribed non-partisan office of governor of the Central Bank is a precedent that we could do without.  For Emefiele to close his eyes and ears to all constitutional and legal provisions that precludes him from getting muddled in any form of adventure, however negligent, not to speak of full-time involvement in partisan politics is something that could only have ever happened “at this time”. Emefiele has seen that under this dispensation, there is zero tolerance for moral rectitude. He has seen that the law can be, if not absolutely ignored, danced around. He knows that on this Nigerian ship – ship mates can run amok anyhow they like. He has been sufficiently emboldened (as we have been told by his ward chair), to become a member of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC), since February 2021, no less.   2023: Ambition, God and man     Open letter to ASUU     Igbo presidency: change tactics   More shockingly, in the period he has become a partisan politician, he has smugly kept on overseeing the CBN and as has been the practice historically, taken custody of all sensitive electoral materials in the CBN’s vaults prior to all elections that have held in Nigeria, without informing other interested parties of his partisanship. Emefiele has seen that extant laws, rules and regulations governing public and civil servants have been rubbished again and again. Time and time again, he has seen folks who ought to have retired, stay on past their time. He has seen that rotten performance, egregious conduct, malfeasance and corruption are not sticks to beat anyone with. He has seen that in this climate, only “winks’ and “pardons’ suffices. Absent leadership and proper steerage, expected to be provided by the ruling party (since 1999), all manner of “gold prospecting” presidential diggers are out in the field armed with an assortment of plundering tools. Consideration to the “fragility” of Nigeria’s corporate existence has been abandoned as the elitist North-South presidential rotational swap arrangement threatens to be jettisoned. As for Emefiele, it is “trite” to waste time calling on him to resign as most commentators have clamoured. The man who as CBN governor surreptitiously joined a political party and is presently “in court” is set on his course. Nigerian political actors, like Emefiele and his co-travelling public/political office holders, who brazenly want to sit tight, whilst contesting elective positions – have “empirically” proven that such intangibles like honour and morality are not tangible considerations once dialed in on their “game of thrones”. The CBN Act which expressly provides that : “The Governor and the Deputy Governors shall devote the whole of their time to the service of the Bank and while holding office shall not engage in any full or part time employment or vocation” – most certainly does not envisage a card carrying political party partisan as governor of the CBN. For Emefiele, the man under whose watch Nigeria’s currency has reached an all-time low and has recorded the worst economic indexes in its history, the combined effect of the CBN Act, Public Service Rules and the 1999 Constitution, as amended, gives him absolutely no wriggle room to engage in any form of partisan political activity. There is no question as to whether Godwin Emefiele, as a Nigerian citizen, has the right to aspire to the highest office in the land, for he certainly does – just not as CBN governor. However, his political journey plays out, his position as CBN governor is now untenable and he must vacate that office. Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, SAN, puts it rather succinctly; “So long as Emefiele earns salary as a CBN employee, he should not dream of contesting election while still holding on to his office. It is an insult to our collective psyche as a people.”