The eighth edition of the historic Okpekpe international 10km Road Race will be live on television across the globe come Saturday,  28th May 28 according to organisers of the World Athletics elite label event. Zack Amodu, the race director said  its broadcast partner, Supersport, the number one cable TV in Africa will broadcast the race live on race day. ”SuperSport has been our broadcast partner since the start of the race in 2013 and will broadcast the race live on television this Saturday,” said Amodu. Aside from fulfilling one of the key requirements of organising a World Athletics Elite Label road race, Amodu said the organisers  were  determined to ensure many people across the globe, especially those in the athletics family get to watch the race live because it has become a global event. ”SuperSport has started running the promo on Supersport Blitz as one of its exciting packages sports lovers and non-sports lovers can look forward to in the month of May,” Amodu  explained. “There will also be a live streaming of the race on our Facebook page. This will give many people who may not readily have access to television wherever they are all over the world the opportunity to see what is happening on the day as the race is the only one scheduled for this Saturday in the calendar of World Athletics,” Amodu added.   GOtv Boxing Night 25: Apata Roro  rallies support from  …     PARIS 2022  COUNTDOWN: Heineken recalls  UCL  glamour ahead…     Lagos promises to host ITTF World Championships   He maintained  that the  focus of the entire world, especially lovers of road races, will be on Okpekpe, a town in Etsako East Local Government Area of Edo State in South-South Nigeria, located about 25km North East of Auchi. ”With giant telecommunications network, MTN’s support for the race by, among other things optimising their network in and around Okpekpe town, this will enable Supersport to deploy its artificial intelligence cameras to enhance the live broadcast of the event,” said Amodu. According to the race director, the Okpekpe Network optimization involves the deployment of network infrastructures to event areas covering Apama road where the race will be flagged off and Okpekpe, the finish point. This, he said, will promote increased productivity and usability and allow data to be exchanged effectively and efficiently. The World Athletics Elite Label Okpekpe international 10km road race is the first road running event in Nigeria to have its course measured by a World Athletics certified course measurer and the first in West Africa to be granted a label status. World Athletics label races are races the world governing body for athletics designates as one of the leading road races around the world.