It is an old nut that has proven difficult, if not impossible, to crack: why despite the presence of Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), the country has not only remained a haven for fake and substandard products, but one in which incidences of product adulteration and faking have refused to abate. While the nation gropes for answers, a former president of the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders, Eugene Nweke, has since counselled that the nation tackle the problem from the root, the enablers of the rot – the shipping lines. Said he: “The SON knows too well that its greatest challenge stems from its lack of regulatory control over the shipping lines, which it needs to checkmate them publicly…” And his arguments: Nigeria is a notorious haven for international shipping lines whose modus operandi runs contrary to best practices.  That the shipping environment allows for collusion between foreign shipping lines and local proxies that are no more than fronts by some unscrupulous politicians, especially those that fall short of international best practices. Finally, that foreign shipping lines easily transmute into national one through the instrument of a registered national association – hence the reign of extortion in the shipping industry. The above, an important dimension to the crisis, obviously deserves to be taken very seriously by the Federal Government. Indeed, we couldn’t agree more that the situation demands not just the overhauling of the shipping industry but also a fine-tuning of the relevant laws and regulations governing the sector, to address the weighty issues rendering shipping and foreign trade an all-comers’ affair – issues that continue to serve as enabler to the indiscriminate dumping of substandard products on the citizens. In that regard, there is obviously room for collaboration.   It’s not ‘free speech’ Musk wants; it’s power     Who will rescue train attack captives?     Train attack: Terrorists free Ango Abdullahi’s son   Yet, much as a great deal of attention to the above would enhance the overall environment of regulation, we nonetheless disagree with the suggestion that SON be given some regulatory control over the shipping lines. Such a call, which is neither practicable nor entirely helpful, will only serve to confer on SON such powers that it does not even need. It assumes, falsely, that SON is not a part of the problem. And finally, that it would not ‘export’ the same in-grained regulatory weakness and compromises to shipping operations were such powers to be granted. No doubt, there will always be room for the organisation – or any organisation for that matter – to make adjustments in capacity upgrade to enhance overall efficiency. Even at that, we must state that the case for such has not been sufficiently articulated by SON, at least not at this point. In fact, the problem would seem not so much about a lack of capacity but corruption and a lack of will. We see this in the activities of the operatives, many of whom continue to give regulation a bad name, and their bosses who feign indifference. For, while it is hard to imagine a single container of sub-standard goods moving from the ports to the warehouses and ultimately to the market undetected without a group of corrupt officials abetting the crime, that the leadership of the organisation appears to have surrendered to the rot must be seen as the ultimate tragedy. Here, Nigerians would recall the example from the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) of yore under the doughty leadership of late Dora Akunyili. Then, the agency not only stood for best practices but took on the challenges of regulation very seriously, with impressive results to show. It is the absence of that kind of committed leadership that allows Nigerians to be treated to recycled excuses. Nigerians expect SON to live up to its billing. Standards are what they are supposed to ensure, a kind of guarantee not just of value but safety. Anything short of this would amount to a rip-off, a trade in something with potential to cause harm. It is not sufficient for SON to roll out standards; it must, at all times match up with measures to enforce them. Purging its ranks of corrupt elements to ensure Nigerians are guaranteed the best of value would, in the circumstance, be a good starting point.