All is not well between Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and his deputy, Lucky Aiyedatiwa, over choice of which candidates to support ahead of the party primary, especially in Ondo South Senatorial District where the deputy governor hails from. Also caught in the web are some aides of Governor Akeredolu, who sources said, felt they should have a say on who emerged from their various constituencies. Government sources said the deputy governor and some aides were dissatisfied with the outcome of a meeting of some Ondo APC leaders where preferred candidates of the party were chosen. The meeting, according to the sources, was held last Thursday at the Governor’s Office. Those at the meeting were members of the APC State Working Committee led by the state Chairman, Ade Adetimehin and prominent leaders of the party in the state. Others who attended the meeting included the deputy governor and the Chief of Staff to the Governor, Gbenga Ale. It was gathered that all leaders at the meeting had a consensus agreement on candidates to support for the House of Assembly election, House of Representatives and the Senate, while other aspirants were urged to try their luck at the primary. Among those mentioned to be favoured were former Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, who is contesting for the Ilaje/Ese-Odo federal constituency, Majority Leader of the Ondo Assembly, Ogunmolasuyi Oluwole and a son of monarch of Ugbo kingdom, Oba Frederick Akinruntan. A top government official said some aides of the governor have vowed to work for Idowu Mafimisebi as against Ojogo, the party’s candidate.   Will Buhari, Emefiele sacrifice CBN for 2023?      Obi-nomics     2023: Orji Kalu picks APC form for Senate   Another source said the deputy governor invited them for a meeting after the meeting held with the governor and informed them that all his recommendations as regards candidates in Ilaje and Ese-Odo were rejected. “As things stand now, there are moves in Ilaje and Ese-Odo by the deputy governor. He expressed disappointment that the governor rejected his candidate in Ilaje constituency 2 who was his Personal Assistant, Segun Iwalokun. Many meetings have been held between Thursday and now. “As party leaders, we have received the directive of the party and the governor. On the Senate, we have the party directive to work for Jimoh Ibrahim. Despite the directive and the fact that Mr. governor was part of that resolution, the deputy governor is currently mobilising for another senatorial aspirant. “Besides that, despite the governor’s directive that we should all work for the former information commissioner, Ojogo, the deputy governor is campaigning and working for one Goke Ayara from Apoi. Aiyedatiwa has held two meetings against Ojogo’s aspiration at his house in Akure. I was part of one. “But we are particularly disturbed on the issue of the assembly where the deputy governor is selling a dummy to us that his recommendations were jettisoned by Aketi. “What we are saying is that all these counter moves are confusing the stakeholders. Maybe the governor should call the stakeholders in each local government and hold meetings with us. In Ilaje and Ese-Odo, the deputy governor is confusing us”. A member of the State Working Committee, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said: “The governor made it clear that ABA (Olugbo’s son) should be given the return ticket. The deputy governor did not make any objection. I was surprised when we found out he was still rooting for one Sunday Erukubami and propping him to obtain form and contest against the Olugbo’s son. “If the deputy governor wants to fight his boss, he should be courageous enough and show it. All these underground work will not get him anywhere. We are going to hold a meeting soon. And we will request audience with the governor after the meeting. If the deputy governor wants to make himself an emperor over the governor and the party, he should be bold enough and come out.”