President Muhammadu Buhari has urged community, regional and national leaders to unite in speaking against the escalating level of violence across the country. The President, who was reacting to the shooting and subsequent beheading of a couple, who were military personnel, Master Warrant Officer Audu Linus and Private Gloria Mathew, in Imo State last Saturday, directed security agencies to track, arrest and bring perpetrators to justice. Security sources, including the Army, had pointed accusing fingers at the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) as being responsible for the gruesome murder and decapitation of the couple, who reportedly were on their way to Nkwerre in Imo State for their traditional wedding. In a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, President Buhari condemned the killing and eventual beheading, describing it as barbaric. He said the recent increase in attacks on security personnel was alien to all cultures and civilisations. Buhari called on all leaders – community, regional and national – to “speak with one voice, to show that the entire country is against this cruel and barbaric act of violence. This is unacceptable. “Our thoughts and prayers are with the families affected by this sad and tragic incident.”   Kebbi hunters urge Buhari to sign NHFSS bill into law     Emir of Kano urges residents to collect PVCs     Nigeria-Morocco gas pipeline: OPEC, Russia show interest   The statement said: “The President has directed the military authorities and other security agencies to do their utmost in apprehending the perpetrators of these barbaric acts and bring them to justice. “On behalf of the government and the entire nation, President Buhari expresses deep condolences to the Army and the families of Master Warrant Officer Audu Linus and his partner, Private Gloria Mathew, who were beheaded after being shot by a terrorist group, the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), last Saturday as confirmed by the Army. “The bodies were inhumanely treated and gleefully posted on social media platforms. “The President joins fellow citizens in expressing deep sense of shock and condemns the barbarism of the perpetrators of this unfortunate incident, and similar acts of violence against law enforcement agents, describing it as alien to all cultures and civilisations.” IPOB denies involvement in act Indigenous People of Biafra, (IPOB) has described as laughable and fallacious, a statement credited to the Army that it was responsible for the killing of a couple on transit in Imo State after their wedding. The group said it had no hand in the atrocity, which it described as an abominable act in Igbo tradition. In a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, IPOB explained that no true Igbo would hurt an in-law, let alone a married daughter (Ada) in Igbo land. It warned security agencies to leave the secessionist group alone, saying the Army and police were confused institutions beclouded to see the truth as a result of their bias.