A tech firm, Datamellon, has entered into partnership with AWS Nigeria User Group to create awareness on how to showcase amazing products using Internet of Things (IoT). Speaking at a briefing at the Zone Tech Park, Gbagada, Lagos, representative of AWS User Group in Nigeria, Mr. Wale Adeniji, said the event is the first physical meeting being held among developers because of the COVID- 19 pandemic. He said other interactions had been virtual and that the recent one was convened to sensitise people on ways of exploring and exploiting various tools and services on AWS. Adedeji, who is the Managing Director/Chief Technology Officer, Datamellon, listed challenges developers were grappling with in the business to include erratic power supply and affordable internet services.   UBA will sustain support to African businesses, says DMD     Fed Govt expects Dangote Refinery to start Q1, 2023     Fed Govt okays tax reliefs, other incentives for tech…   He said: “We need power, we need a finite internet and at the same time we need to train our people. There is a shortage of developers all over the world now, it’s a segment we can key into just to generate loads of jobs for our young ones.” Adeniji said the training was not only restricted to developers, stressing that there are people who are involved in colleges and higher institutions. According to the representative of the Arnold AWS User Group, they have various work stream, which are developing engineers, Site Reliability Engineers (SRE), solution architects, developers, and basically system administrators, network administrators, cloud enthusiasts. According to him, CapeTown, South Africa, is the first AWS region in Africa and Nigeria is also a potential, a couple of AWS presence are in Nigeria but not to the scale of a region. “I know with the kind of interest from various entities with the adoption of stakeholders with the adoption of AWS basically in Nigeria I know it’s something that should be in the pipeline to have much more presence in Nigeria,” he said. Speaking on the cloud service system in the country, Adedeji said: “The cloud service ecosystem is beyond what we are even thinking about here, anybody that is starting any start-up now, where you are going to start it has to be the cloud because you didn’t have to go and buy the server, you just consume what you need and pay for what you need and just pay for that. So the adoption is fast accelerating and all the censor stories are out of Nigeria.” He advised the big companies to take advantage of the cloud. He added that the cloud service system is what anybody that is starting a start-up will have to start from the cloud because they don’t have to go and buy the server. “They just consume what they need and pay for what they need and just pay for that. So the adoption is fast accelerating and all the censor stories are out of the country,” he said.