My article this week is directed, primarily, at my Ekiti compatriots who will, by the grace of God, be voting at the forthcoming 18 June, 2022 governorship election in the state.  We must know that being a highly educated and exposed people, Hosea 4:6 – my people perish for lack of knowledge – must not apply to us as  we go to cast our vote. The piece will, therefore, deal less with the  achievements of  the APC government in power in the state which, by the way,  we know like our palms – but much more with the other wanna be political parties that want  Ekiti people to foolishly put their future in their hands. We would, however, not be unduly bothered with the PDP  which has unravelled since its primaries. We are therefore left, essentially, with the SDP as about the only other party of any consequence in the state. The first thing I would like us to bear in mind is the fact that this is going to be a very consequential election, the result of which will either ensure a continuation of the state’s current developmental trajectory, re- introduced when Governor Kayode Fayemi came back in October 2018, after the  interegnum of between 2014-18 which saw the thrashing of  several existing laws which were procedurally passed by the  state House of Assembly, and the stoppage of many of the agencies established by the previous Fayemi administration  under its Social Security Scheme for the benefit of the vulnerable, most at risk elderly population. A good example was the N5000 monthly stipend paid to citizens 65years old, and above, flagged off  way back, November, 2011. Happily, Governor Fayemi has since resuscitated them. Even though I had cause to express harsh words against  the administration of  Governor Segun Oni, 2007 – 2010,  I know, and hugely respect him.  He is the governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party ( SDP) in the forthcoming  election. It was in  attestation to this fact that I wrote as follows concerning him in my article: ”Ekiti: Again I Ask Must Our Politicians Always Fight To The Death? of  Sunday, 13 February, 2022: “That said, let me confess that I am personally delighted at the news of His Excellency, Engr Segun Oni’s imminent departure from the PDP.  I can see why PDP can no longer sleep easy, both here at home in Ekiti, and in Abuja. Governor Segun Oni is a highly respected, absolutely incorruptible politician who could never  have stomached the chicanery that played out at the Ekiti PDP primaries”. Unfortunately, governance is not about individuals, simpli cita, even while we cannot  discount an individual’s leadership qualities, the reason social scientists have not  yet stopped interrogating the question of Holism versus Individualism. As a result, even though I shall be writing at great personal pain, the truth must still be told of what we know   of Oni’s government when he was governor, just as we must educate our people about the SDP; a rootless political party, with nil federal presence or influence, besides the shenanigans we have been reading from its National Publicity Secretary, Rufus Aiyenugba who, referring to a top, even foundation member of the party wrote: “The Party also notes his endeavours to defraud unsuspecting party members, friends of SDP and the public through dubious requests for financial support and by impersonating as the SDP’s National Chairman announcing illegal fees for fake State Congresses and Convention and fake Expression of Interest Forms and Nomination Forms for political elections.” Ekitis should, of course, know better than to throw our fate into the laps of a party like the SDP, which has neither national, nor any regional import. The truth about the SDP in Ekiti today, as elsewhere, is that it is not only an essemble of disgruntled, strange bedfellows, joined together mostly as a colony of aggrieved individuals, dissstisfied with their former political parties, It is a party of individuals feeding fat on angst, either against persons in  parties where they were recently driven out from, or even against some of their new party mates, as well as those who, realising they have no chance of fulfilling their political ambition in those parties, had to jump ship. The party is, therefore, a tribe of  scheming, angry individuals, to control who, will task the, no doubt, considerable abilities, of  the  easygoing Governor Segun Oni. Regardless of  the above negativities though, I’ll be the first to concede that  the party’s leading lights in the state are respectable Ekitis. What they lack, however,  is  the ability to run an efficient, and  coordinated government, that will not only continue the socio- economic trajectory of the present APC  government, but take the state to the next level. I say this  because we have experienced them in government. So this conclusion is in no way conjectural. This piece, as I can be observed labouring to explain because of my respect for Governor Oni, is not intended to be polemical. But truth must still be told as this election has everything to do with the corporate good, or otherwise, of Ekiti, our little Jerusalem. To validate many of my assertions above, I crave, in particular,  governor Oni’s apologies, as I go to my archives to  quote, at some length, from my article: ‘Ekiti At 13’, of 27 September, 2009 when he was the state governor.  Therein, I wrote as follows:”Governor Oni, in spite of the peaceful exterior which he tries to evince, has had no peace as Ekiti state governor. His failure as governor is, therefore, so palpable you could cut it with a knife. Governing strictly by reflex, his government has been dubbed a‘photocopy government”. “ For instance, having just come back on a visit to Brazil, he recently said that Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, will be transformed to a mega-city. He said this before a distinguished audience which, I was told, could only erupt in a guffaw”. “Mr. Governor should please tell the world the state of the Ado – Ifaki 12 kilometer road contract which he awarded,  at  hundreds of millions of naira, to a PDP politician some three years ago. It is now in a far worse condition”. “You must also have heard about governor Oni’s ‘world class’ this, first class that. His Teaching hospital will be the first of its kind, just as his stadium would dwarf the Maracana stadium and the entire world will come to savour and go to replicate it  in their own corners on terra firma. You are made to believe that Governor Oni would not do a single thing that will not enter  the Guinness Book of Records”. “Yet, in spite of the fact that the recent riots at the state university had three different panels set up to investigate it – one by the government, another by the Ewi –in-Council with my oga, the distinguished Chief Alex  Olu Ajayi, as Chairman, and another by the institution, and all, according to my  source, arriving at the same conclusion, yet no report has been released till date”. “Ikun Dairy Farm, with 700 cows imported at a whopping cost of N600M, complete with Zimbabwean white farmers in toe, is now in shambles, with its staff unpaid just as the animals have resorted to self-help; feeding by rampaging Ikun farms”. “Salaries of state workers are no longer paid as at when due, but un-requested, and totally unnecessary preferments are being gifted third parties without let, or hindrance. No thanks to a directionless government”. Good thing is, Ekitis will very soon reclaim their state”. If the above was at a time when a much younger Governor Segun Oni was operating within the ‘largest political party in Africa’, one can only imagine  a SDP government in the year of our Lord 2022 and beyond.   2023 Elections: The vindication of Nasir El-Rufai     Gregorians are not the only champions     The myth of NATO’s Article 5   Writing recently about the same Oni administration, Wole Olujobi, Deputy Director, Media and Publicity, of the BAO Campaign Organisation wrote: “Those were days when  their government turned Ekiti to a cauldron of hell, unleashing horrendous violence on the people especially in the 2009 rerun election  during which several people, including Ahmed Musa were killed, and Segun Ajayi lost his leg in Ido-Osi as thugs unleashed mayhem on the  people in a desperate bid to violently seize power”. To, therefore, elect a SDP government in Ekiti state today, will tantamount to empowering people I can only describe as “war lords” who, in whatever area of government  they find themselves, will be absolutely uncontrollable since they are mostly ex – this, ex’-that in the  state, and therefore, too important in their own eyes. As we  say in Ekiti, ika kan o ni wo nwon ni di. We would have, therefore, with our eyes wide open,  brought back those horrendous days of outright mayhem, when Ekiti was always in the news for the wrong reasons. That was a time my colleagues at The Nation’s commentariat, even the editorial staff, nearly nicknamed me “Ekiti columnist”, as I, almost every week, wrote  to try to  repair the Ekiti image  which was being so heedlessly pulverised by the party, and government in power in the state; a sort of self immolation. I urge my Ekiti  compatriots, as they go to vote, to compare what an uproarious scenario we would have created, compared to a government which will be headed by a  respectful, almost self – effacing Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji who, were his government  ever to commit an unintended error, we could take  to any of the following Ekiti dignitaries: Chief Deji Fasuan, under whom he served, barely aged 30, as Secretary to the Committee for the creation of Ekiti state, our Royal Father, HRH, the Ewi of Ado – Ekiti, or any of our two highly regarded former governors, namely, Otunba Niyi Adebayo and Dr Kayode Fayemi, under both of who  he learnt the ropes of his political/ administrative skills, as well as deepened his Omoluabi attributes. Ekiti ni aimoye enia ti a le fi ejo ijoba Biodun sun. Lending all these a historical perspective, Ekiti turned out worse from about when, as young men, those who now populate the SDP,  came into the state’s politics whether as members of Progressive parties or belonging in their natural habitat, the PDP,  from where former governor Ayo Fayose recently drove them away, enmass. But for Governor Oni’s personal attributes, I doubt if SDP would have any member in Ekiti state. In consequence, to vote SDP into power in Ekiti will result in a rehash of the highly atavistic politics of the Governor Segun Oni era when, through all manner of machinations,  PDP  was able to manufacture a 50:50 division in the State House of Assembly, even after the party had been beaten, blue and black,  in both the governorship and legislative elections, as would subsequently be affirmed by the Court of Appeal, Ilorin, while annulling Oni’s election. I have gone to all these details of our not too recent history so they will serve as a mnemonic – an aid to memory – as we go to cast our votes in the make or mar, 18 June,  2022 election, so we can tell our children, even generations yet unborn, that we did our very best in ensuring that Ekiti stood, ramrod steady, on the path of peace, Concord and development by voting BAO. Concluding, let me leave us with BAO’s eternal words to which I haven’t a scintilla of doubt, that we can all hold him up to: “I would like to assure you that your labour of love will never be in vain. As we commence our campaign journey today, I am sharing with you the ideas that have been carefully designed to keep our state working. “These ideas have come from my interactions with various categories of Ekiti citizens at home and abroad. I have listened carefully to all that has been said to me, and I am deeply convinced that the task ahead is possible by God’s grace, and with us working together,”. “There is no magic wand to build our state, and the sustainable progress we want will not happen overnight. We have been on a long journey to reclaim our land and restore our values. It is now time to hunker down and sustain all our gains. – Lifted from his speech titled: “TOGETHER WITH YOU, LET’S KEEP EKITI WORKING”, in which he unveiled the following as his Agenda: Education, Agriculture and rural development, Health care, Industrialisation, Social Investment, Arts, Culture and Tourism and completion of all ongoing projects. He promised to complete 500 kilometres of rural farm roads within his  first four years in order to enhance agricultural development and to ensure food security in the state. Other areas of focus  will be Youth Development, Job Creation and  Human Capital Development. He equally promised to strengthen the state’s security architecture through massive deployment of technology  adding that his government would work with security agencies to bring crime rate to the barest minimum. Therefore, Vote APC, Vote BAO and guarantee Ekiti’s continued development in an atmosphere of peace, come 18 June, 2022.