The Oba of Benin, Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II, has assured the National Leader of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, that he and all the people of Benin Kingdom will continue to pray for him to pick APC’s ticket and win the presidential election. The first-class monarch gave the assurance on Saturday evening in his palace while receiving Tinubu and members of his team. A former National Chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole; the governorship candidate of the party during the September 19, 2020 poll Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu; and a former Deputy Governor, Chief Pius Odubu; among other chieftains of APC were also at the palace to welcome the presidential aspirant. Oba of Benin said: “Your (Tinubu’s) remarks are like preaching to the converted or the Pope. The Benin throne is non-partisan; we are interested in who becomes president of Nigeria. Hence, the throne prays for good leadership. “We are praying for you (Tinubu). If you are eventually given the ticket (of APC) and become president of the country, do the things that will make you sit at the right hand of God. Do not forget those of us that are praying for you.” Tinubu said he has the capacity and experience to govern Nigeria. According to him: “I supported and worked hard for Buhari to become President. I am a very competent individual. I served in Mobil as the Auditor-General and the Treasurer. I have helped to build great institutions and I have been Governor of Lagos State two times.   Adeleke: Dancing senator returns as moneybag     Herbalist impregnates female customer, fights dirty with…     Tributes as Arthur Nzeribe is buried in Imo   “When I took over as Governor, Lagos State was a big slum. Today, I am proud to say that Lagos is a mega city state. When I took over, Lagos was generating N600 million monthly as Internally-Generated Revenue (IGR). Today, Lagos State is generating over N50 billion monthly. Nigeria needs transformational leadership. We need great reforms. “I am here (palace of Oba of Benin) to solicit your blessings, to ask for your endorsement and prayers. I am not a stranger in this palace. I am a son and an in-law at the same time. “This is just a delegates’ selection process. I can come to Benin and sneak out, just to speak with the delegates, but since you are a father, and there is a great history behind your throne and the culture, I know I will be here today on a courtesy visit, before I will start meeting with the delegates.” The national leader of APC promised to replicate in Nigeria, the developmental strides that he put in place in Lagos State as Governor. Oshiomhole described Tinubu as the best man for the presidential job, declaring that the country needs somebody who could get the job done, without giving excuses. He noted that the former Lagos Governor has the ability of identifying competent and loyal persons across Nigeria, who would work with him to get the desired results. The former President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) disclosed that when he was Edo governor, his administration borrowed many initiatives from Lagos State based on the solid foundation laid by Tinubu. He urged APC delegates and other Nigerians to massively vote for him during the primary election and the presidential poll.