Bauchi Governor Bala Mohammed on Wednesday dismissed the frenzy that has trailed the refusal of President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the latest amendment to the Electoral Act, saying a smaller number of delegates is in the interest of aspirants. Mohammed, who is also a presidential aspirant on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), spoke while briefing State House Correspondents after leading an entourage of Bauchi representatives on a thank-you- visit to President Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. According to him, the process of amending the electoral act did not start on time and signing now might go against National Electoral Commission (INEC) guidelines for elections. Some political parties had in recent times pressured President Buhari to assent to the amendment to current Section 84 (8) which provides that delegates to vote at the Indirect Primaries and National Convention of political parties to elect candidates for elections shall be those democratically elected for that purpose only.   Court adjourns Kanu’s case to June 28     Alex Otti withdraws from Abia APC Gov primary     Security operatives take over venue of Rivers Gov primary   The implication is that statutory delegates, such as elected political office holders, political appointees and executive officers of political parties are not eligible to vote at primaries to nominate candidates for the 2023 general election. The new Section 84 has in effect drastically pruned the number of delegates for party indirect primaries and reduced the financial implications of delegate elections. Asked how he felt that the President has not signed the electoral act, he said: “Well, I’m a realist. I believe that the Electoral Act is a product of the legislative process and that has been done and it was not done earlier and then we have a timeline and guideline of INEC, so we’ll have to manage it. “I think the less the merrier as somebody who is in the race. Well, I have less delegates to go and woo, it is better for me than all these 4,000, 5,000 delegates. Anyway, that is my take.”