Gareth Bale’s Real Madrid success cannot be forgotten,  so said  team-mate Luka Modric. The Welshman is chasing an incredible FIFTH Champions League winners’ medal — and his 16th major trophy with Real — in tomorrow’s  final against Liverpool. There will be no fanfare despite a glittering nine-year, roller-coaster career with the Spanish giants. The superstar, 32, has won it all in Madrid but his legacy will be vastly different to his god-like status in Cardiff. Bale lives in a strange parallel world. Abused and mocked by Spanish media and fans, yet adored and loved in Wales. He could end his career with a statue in his home city if the Dragons’ captain leads his country to a first World Cup final in 64 years by beating Scotland or Ukraine in the June 5 play-off final. But Bale will never receive that same affection in Madrid, where he has earned in the region of an eye-watering £200MILLION in wages. So why have things turned so sour for him in Spain? Pal Modric, who also played with him at Tottenham, said: “The best thing is you ask Gareth what happened. “I always say Gareth was very important for this club and team. “He has done great things and that cannot be forgotten. “It is a shame that the last year has not been the best for him and the club.” Bale’s Real career can be split into two parts. A fantastic first five years and a troublesome final four. After the fresh-faced forward arrived from Spurs for a then world-record £86m deal in 2013, Real won four European Cups in the following five seasons. Personal glory also came for Bale with three final goals, one against cross-city rivals Atletico in Lisbon in 2014 and a double against Liverpool in Kiev four years ago. He also scored a penalty in the 2016 penalty shootout win against Atletico in Milan, plus he won Europe’s biggest prize at home in Cardiff against Juventus a year later. Two-goal Bale inspired Real to their 13th  European Cup off the bench in that 2018 final against Jurgen Klopp’s men, who are the opponents once again in Paris.   UCL final comes alive on GOTv      PARIS 2O22: Cubana hosts Liverpool, Real UCL showdown     US Tour:  Peseiro parleys Eagles’ coaching crew   A stunning overhead kick minutes after coming on came when his relationship with Real chief Zinedine Zidane was fractious. His club career never hit those heights again. Bale moved to public enemy No 1 in the final four seasons, blighted by injury and controversy. A new £650,000-a-week, six-year contract signed in October 2016, months after Bale’s heroics of leading Wales to the Euros semi-finals, increased the spotlight on him. After being frozen out by Zidane, who returned to Real for a second time in March 2019, Bale’s astonishing £1M-A-WEEK move to Chinese Super League side Jiangsu Suning collapsed at the 11th  hour. Pictures then emerged of him playing golf as Real faced Tottenham in a Munich pre-season match — and his Spanish critics had a field day. Bale struggled to shake off calf and hamstring injuries but he incensed Real fans further. In September 2019, he confirmed he liked his nickname ‘The Golfer’, coined by Real pal Thibaut Courtois. Two months later he inflamed that issue after Wales made the Euro 2020 finals with a banner that read: “Wales. Golf. Madrid. In that order.” Few were surprised Bale left on a season-long loan to Spurs and 16 goals allowed him to spearhead Wales’ Euros finals campaign. Injuries struck again this season, limiting him to seven appearances. The Spanish media called Bale a “parasite”, a remark the forward branded “disgusting”. Wales chief Robert Page said: “It’s unjust and unfair. I don’t think it’s right that people criticise him when he has given so much to a club.” Bale’s last Real appearance came as a sub against Getafe on April 9 when he was booed. He is fit but will boss Carlo Ancelotti turn to him on Saturday? Page knows Bale still has the quality, as his world-class free-kick in the win over Austria in March proved. And if his talisman leads Wales to the World Cup next month, Page added: “I’d build a statue of him myself if he scores a winner. He’s a legend and Welsh icon.”