Fulham midfielder Josh Onomah deserved commendation for helping his Championship side gain promotion within one year.  Born in the United Kingdom (U.K) to Nigerian parents (Joseph and Josephine), Joshua Oghenetega Onomah has made 21 appearances and scored a goal for Fulham. He averages 21 passes per match with a completion rate of 80 percent and has two assists. He often plays on the left side but has been dominant in the midfielder so effective earning just one yellow card. Feeling over the moon on the promotion, Onomahsaid the team knew the importance of bouncing back to the Premier League and were focused right from the beginning. “We knew what we wanted and we were prepared a promotion push. Scott Parker’s side were relegated with three games to play last season, but Onomah said they did not dwell on it. We help up our heads purporting to end the season with pride and look to bounce straight back.” The former Tottenham man missed most of the last season with a knee injury but quickly bounced back to help guide Fulham back and likewise get his career back on track. “For me, the preparations for promotion started from day one of the Championship. I knew what the Championship can give, and we faced that challenge headlong. Look at Watford and Norwich, they’ve bounced straight back and that is what we planned. It’s great to be back.” PROMOTION DRAMA Every season the race for the Premier League is full of drama, excitement, and often tension. But this year, Fulham have pulled so far clear of the competition they have declared themselves winners with four games to spare. Their points tally, 86, is enough to canter over the finish line safe in the knowledge automatic promotion is guaranteed. But the race, in truth, is only half run.   Yemi Idowu: Journey to new-look Maracana stadium     ADEMOLA LOOKMAN: Bittersweet memory of World Cup playoff     2023: Don’t use free forms to kill women’s ambitions,…   After spending 13 consecutive seasons in the Premier League between 2001-2014, Fulham’s fortunes have been somewhat less stable in recent years, with their last five campaigns ending in either promotion or relegation. question Fulham’s bounce-back ability. The pattern is consistent. Relegation woe is followed by the joy of immediate promotion. And once again it’s only taken the London outfit one season of Championship football to realise their potential as a first-tier club, but questions over their longevity remain. With promotion now mathematically secure Marco Silva will have one eye, or possibly even two, on next season. In Silva, Fulham have a leader with Premier League know-how. In both top-flight forays of recent memory, they have been led by managers who lacked such experience. Fulham have also led the Championship since mid-January and despite suffering a delay to their promotion parade with a few rogue results – notably against Coventry City and Derby County – have known their fate for weeks. Fulham have tried spending heavily with limited success in the past and will need to be shrewd operators in the summer transfer market to ensure they boost their squad in the areas they lack most. This time around, with automatic promotion secure without the need for the play-offs, Fulham are ahead of the competing pack. Fulham’s recruitment policy has been flawed in recent years and relied too heavily at times on loanees. They splurged over £100m on 12 players ahead of 2018/19, before being forced into the January market for a short-term fix in an attempt to save their ill-fated season. AleksandarMitrovic is undoubtedly Fulham’s talisman, although question marks remain over his Premier League suitability. Regardless, Silva appears to know how to get the best out of his record-breaking striker. He is thriving in a settled system guided by Silva’s dynamic style. In March, Mitrovic broke Ivan Toney’s Championship scoring record by notching his 32nd and 33rd league goals of the season in a win over Peterborough.