A retired Group General Manager, Research and Development, Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC), Dr Bola Afolabi, in an interview granted The Punch Newspaper, captured the perennial challenges of government-owned public companies. It is what one may call the tragedy of government as bad manager of business. According to Dr Afolabi: “government has no business in business.” He went on: “empirical evidence suggests that no matter how efficient a government establishment is, it cannot be run profitably and efficiently as a commercial enterprise because of conflicting objectives.” He made an interesting comparison between the successful delivery of the Dangote Refinery, and the debilitating state of the NNPC refineries, which has remained comatose despite the huge resources invested by several regimes in the so-called turn around maintenance. According to the renowned expert in supply chain management, the NNPC is run against the standards of business practice, and that affects its efficiency. He posits that no business will run the way the refineries are run, where products are sold below the cost price of production. In his words: “The refineries are running at a loss because of the dilapidated condition of the assets (plant, machineries and infrastructure) due to their ageing nature and poor maintenance.” He continued: “funding is epileptic, policy is unstable and there is little or no strategic plan for asset renewal processes.” It is sad that the three refineries owned by the NNPC have remained money guzzlers and cesspit of corruption, since the sale conducted by the government of President Olusegun Obasanjo was botched by the succeeding regime of President Umaru Yar’Adua. In fairness to late President Yar’Adua, many public commentators had supported that the sale be rescinded, alleging that it was fraught with corruption. But tragically, since then, billions of dollars have been expended on perennial turnaround maintenance that has yielded next to nothing. So, perhaps there is the need for elite consensus on the way forward, considering the unending tragedy that the NNPC and other national corporations have suffered. Perhaps those who called for the reversal of the sale of the refineries then would argue differently considering the current challenges.   Federalised police     Another IMF pill?     Malami and official conflict of interest   There are other national corporations that have turned into an albatross on the national economic life. They include the Ajaokuta Steel Complex and the Transmission Corporation of Nigeria (TCN). While every government since President Obasanjo up to President Muhammadu Buhari, has tried several tactics to complete the Ajaokuta complex, it has been a lot of motion without movement. And in that locomotion, billions of dollars have been wasted, without any success. On its part, the TCN has perennially plunged the country into darkness, because of its inefficiency. As we stated above, there is the need for national consensus on the way out of the quagmire. Apart from the challenge of government running corporations, there are complaints about the centralisation of the key economic facilitators in the hands of the Federal Government. For instance, many Nigerians are aghast that electricity remains in the exclusive legislative list. Again, unlike the standard practice of federal system of government, the natural resources of federating units have been confiscated by the central authority, and such distortions contribute to the gross inefficiency that pervades the system. Dr Afolabi captures the peculiar contradictions in the life of our national corporations, when he said: “incidentally, NNPC is blessed with very competent and well-trained technical staff that can run the assets efficiently and effectively but inconsistent government policies, political interference, asset vandalisation and unstable crude supply are among the myriad of problems militating against the smooth functioning of these refineries.” The time for change is now, unless we want to keep doing the same thing that has failed the nation repeatedly, which would not be good for us. As they say, you cannot be doing the same thing the same way and expect a different result.