Chukwueze’s Villarreal tango Barcelona for a ticket to  Europe while Alex  Iwobi’ Everton are Arsenal’s guests in EPL finale, writes TUNDE LIADI.   In Spain, Samuel Chukwueze and Villarreal are visiting the Nou Camp tomorrow for a date with in-form Barcelona who have already guaranteed second spot irrespective of how the result of the final game of the season pans out. Barcelona, who look primed for a shot at the La Liga title next season are coming into this fixture having won three of their last four and are highly favoured to win it without much stress. The results just keep stacking up for Xavi’s outfit, who are searching for an eighth win in ten league fixtures at Camp Nou, where they have been defeated just four times this campaign. Meanwhile, Villarreal has been  struggling  away from home and they  must win this fixture to guarantee finishing in a Europa Conference League spot to fend off competition from Athletic Bilbao.Bilbao are away to Sevilla and must pick the maximum points to leapfrog the Yellow Submarines. Sevilla need at least a draw to seal the fourth and final Champions League berth at the expense of Real Betis who played Real Madrid at the Santiago Bernabeu in a fixture played yesterday. Unai Emery’s side have managed only five wins on their travels in the league, a stark contrast to their run to the Champions League semi-finals, while they have picked just three victories in their last nine at all venues.   FINAL DAY DECIDER: D-day for Pep, Klopp as EPL goes down…     Teenage sensation idolizes Dennis at Watford     Avianna & Harvey Entertainments sign up John Obi Mikel   Chukwueze hasn’t really lived up to the billing with erratic performance all season. His statistics of mere three goals and three assists from 26 league games doesn’t bode well for a player that is close to the peak of his career. He will have a final chance to convince Emery at the Nou Camp. Still in Spain, Umar Sadiq’s Almeria host Alcorcon at the Estadio Mediterraneo in the Spanish Segunda Division on today, with both sides having had contrasting seasons. Almeria is currently at the top of the table, two points ahead of Eibar in 2nd. Rubi’s side will know that a win will guarantee their promotion back to the La Liga. They will look to secure their promotion with a win against a poor Alcorcon side. The Spanish side will know that this is a golden opportunity to secure promotion against a poor Alcorcon side after the playoffs heartbreak they suffered last season to Rayo Vallecano in the semi-final of the playoffs. Almeria have slightly edged the recent head-to-head record between the two sides, having won two of their last five meetings, with Alcorcon winning only one. Umar with 17 league goals and 12 assists from 34 games is still with a fighting chance of finishing the season as the highest scorer in the Segunda 2 with two games to the end of the season. He is three goals adrift.