The governor of Akwa Ibom State, Udom Emmanuel, has called on the Federal Government and the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) to end the lingering strike action embarked upon by the latter in order to avert the disaster it could spell for the nation’s education sector. A statement issued on behalf of the governor by the spokesperson of Udom Emmanuel Presidential Council, Mr. Bola Bolawole, said the time had come for both the Federal Government and ASUU to climb down from their high horse and avert a disaster that may strike the country’s educational system if the lingering ASUU strike is not called off. “What will be the rationale for the continued maintenance and relevance of ASUU and its members if the students they claim to teach and train are seen and treated as half-baked by their counterparts in other parts of the world?” Governor Udom wondered. He called on both the Federal Government and ASUU to “put on the thinking cap of statesmen and resolve this issue as quickly as possible in the interest of all. “Where necessary, sacrifices must be made on all sides. And as much as is humanly possible, agreements freely entered into must be respected and implemented.   Oil wells: Imo accuses Wike of prior knowledge of Supreme…     2023: PDP doesn’t have good aspirants – Amaechi     2023: Battle of the titans for Senate seats in Imo   “The records of ASUU strike actions in recent years are worrisome. Close to four years have been lost to strike actions, whereas an average semester is made up of between three and four months! “Just imagine how many semesters and whole academic sessions the university system has lost to ASUU strikes alone, not to talk of time lost to strike actions by other workers in the university system and student demonstrations! “Enough is now enough! All the key players or gladiators should understand that what is going on is self-immolation. “We all must stop cutting our nose to spite our face. Saving the university system from imminent collapse is a task that must be done. “It is the duty of each and every one of us; not Government’s alone; and not ASUU’s alone. Everyone must stand up to be counted. “I have added my voice! Add yours! Heeding this clarion call is the first step in the right direction.”