To deepen Nigeria’s financial inclusion drive, financial literacy has a key role to play, Programme Lead at Sustainable Inclusive Digital Financial Services (SIDFS), Olayinka David-West, has said. Speaking on the partnership between African B2B and B2C fintech company, NowNow and Lagos Business School’s SIDFS to initiate a financial education and literacy program aimed at driving Nigeria’s financial inclusion growth, David-West said: “Since 2016, LBS’ Sustainable and Inclusive Digital Financial Services has supported the financial services ecosystem with rich evidence-based insights, particularly about women, youths, and rural dwellers, who are the most excluded groups. Research shows that financial literacy is a driver of financial inclusion and providing financial education can produce outstanding results in the quest to integrate excluded people into the formal financial system. We are excited to work with NowNow to improve financial literacy among Nigeria’s most excluded demography and look forward to the impact and outcome of our collective efforts.” Most of NowNow’s customers are people who have never had a bank account, so it’s the company’s social mission to provide the proper educational support.   BATN okays N16.5m grant for corps farmers     MTN, Google, Microsoft empower MSMEs with digital skills     Datamellon, AWS partner on IoT   On the initiative, Partnership Director at NowNow Digital Services, Lekan Akinjide, said: “We strongly believe that financial inclusion should be complemented by financial education. In this regard, we are excited to partner with the Sustainable and Inclusive Digital Financial Services of the Lagos Business School to provide financial literacy directly to Nigerians. Our partnership with SIDFS is critical to moving the financial inclusion needle to ensure citizens have the necessary knowledge and skills to use financial services.” LBS with the support from Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation launched the Sustainable Digital Financial Services Project in Nigeria between 2015 and 2016. The initiative engages in research and advocacy projects with the goal of creating an inclusive ecosystem for financial services and understanding. The SIDFS supports the development and promotion of sustainable solutions to Nigeria’s financial inclusion challenges and help more Nigerians access financial services. In partnership with SIDFS, NowNow will adapt the content into easily digestible format for specific audiences. The fintech company aims to bridge the gap between the banking system and the unbanked population by providing educational content through different channels to raise awareness and establish financial inclusion. NowNow’s mission is to deliver best in class financial services to SMEs, banking agents and consumers, and provide financial empowerment to Africans. The long-term partnership would be in phases with the initial offering focused on women before expanding to youths and then to other sub-categories. The strategy to focus on women at the initial stage is because informed by the statistics that they form a greater percentage of the financially excluded groups and are more excluded from the formal sector in comparison to the other groups. Armed with a rapidly growing product suite and highly agile technology platform, NowNow seeks to build the world’s best technology that digitizes cash payments for Africans.  The innovative company is focused on solving everyday financial challenges by creating the largest fintech ecosystem in Africa as well as supporting the financial inclusion goal in the continent.