Instagram has helped in discovering so many talents. However, here are six fast rising skit makers who do not only make people laugh but also monetise their craft: 1. OGB Recent Micheal Charles popularly known as OGB Recent has been making waves with his popular slang “I be cultist o, abi you wan collect”. The social media comedian hails from Ebonyi. Aside content creation, he doubles as a master of ceremonies. Charles has over 600, 000 followers on his Instagram account 2. Oga Sabinus Online comedian Emmanuel Ejekwu, fondly called Oga Sabinus is another fast rising social media skit maker, notably known with his body gesture in most of his skits. Sabinus studied Linguistics and Communication at Uniport. Sabinus currently has over 1.9million followers on Instagram   Excitement as Naira Marley reportedly falls in love     Call me a drag queen, says James Brown     21 Nigerian music producers who are also musicians   3 Kiruku Enorense Victory popularly known as Kiriku is a 7-year-old native of Edo State. The young talented comic actor trademark is: abeg shift. He has featured other comedians in his skit such as; Oga Sabinus, Broda Shaggi and Cute Abiola. 4. Mama Chinedu Chukwudike Damian Chijioke professionally known as Mama Chinedu hails from Imo State but grew up in Surulere. He has garnered audience with the tons of slap that the son, Chinedu receives always for being inquisitive. He comedy reflects standard of true Africa women. 5 kiekie Bukunmi Adeaga-Ilori, aka Kiekie, is a versatile woman. The 31-year- old comic actor hails from Ibadan. She has a degree in Mass communication from Bowen University. Kiekie started in entertainment industry with running commentary on her fashion show called “ Fashion shock show”. Kiekie has however transited fully into comedy and has been making waves with over 1 million followers on Instagram 6. Isaac Aloma popularly called Zicsaloma is another online sensation comedian on Instagram. He is known for playing female role(sister Ekwitos). Aloma was a part time lecturer in Kaduna state polytechnic before he resigned fully into comedy. He currently has over 1million followers on Instagram