Managing airports since the outset of COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 has triggered challenges in the air travel space. Reduction in flight and commercial operations resulting from imposed lockdowns, plummeted revenue accruing to airport authorities. Despite the lingering setbacks, aeronautical authorities must scale up aerodrome infrastructure, and train their technical personnel to meet prescribed requirements for certification, writes KELVIN OSA-OKUNBOR. The drive to improve safety and security in airports is drawing the attention of global air transport regulators. From the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) , to Airports Council International (ACI), and International Air Transport Association (IATA), the minimum any country must aim for is the certification of its airports’ infrastructure and technical personnel. But, attaining  this mark has not been swift since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic in the air transport value chain. Clobbered by the pandemic, impacted organisations, including the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), have been rejigging its commercial strategies to cut losses triggered by flight-related operations at airports. Nonetheless, experts said the airport authority  must keep up with the upgrade of airport infrastructure within a certain threshold so as not to fail in securing certification from global safety and aerodrome regulatory bodies. The move to scale up infrastructure, experts said, would assist Nigeria in futhering the gains recorded in September 17, 2017, when  Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), secured ICAO certfication. Abuja Airport got its certfication on November 10, 2017. Since then the airport authority is working hard to secure certification for other airports. But, such stride is only a journey and not a destination. Global industry regulator – ICAO – requires all countries, including Nigeria, to comply with its Annex 17 & 14, which stresses airport security and its fencing. To meet up with its status as a Category 1 country in the ICAO safety rating, the Federal Government has taken steps to scale up perimeter/security fencing at airports nationwide. Besides, ICAO had mandated Nigeria a few years ago to close gaps in its airport security architecture to sustain its safety rating. These developments pushed the  government to consider a review of its airport access control measures at the airports, which is a national border post on the national security framework. Fundamentally , industry think tank group, Aviation Safety Round Table Initiative (ASRTI), insists the airport authority and the Ministry of Aviation  should  align with the template for running safe and secured airports. In an interview, the Managing Director of FAAN, Captain Hamisu Yadudu said since last year, the authority despite the pandemic, has embarked on a series of interventions namely, construction, upgrade, replacement of critical airport infrastructure to meet the prescribed international requirements for enhancing safety and security at airports nationwide. Yadudu said with support from the Ministry of Aviation, the authority has embarked on many projects, including ACI health accreditation programme for Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, Sam Mbakwe International Cargo Airport, Owerri, Sokoto  Airport, Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport , Kano, Margaret Ekpo International Airport, Calabar, and Kaduna Airport. The ACI health accreditation, he said, is a requirement for sustaining global rating for airports in specific protocols in aerodrome.   Experts to discuss ‘SunSet airports’     Our worries, by aviation unions     Five years after, AMCON’s intervention in Arik Air yet…   He said the authority has also taken steps to ramp up access control measures at the nation’s air borders with  a review of  security procedures and the training of over 121 aviation security officers. The training, he said, is to expose them to emerging trends in combating any unlawful interference at the airports. The airport authority boss said ICAO granted approval to FAAN training school for its trainer plus programme, for the training of personnel in Nigeria, West and Central Africa. To drive capacity building for the industry, Yadudu said the authority organised the first ICAO sponsored aviation security instructors certification course. As the industry leverages synergy among agencies to improve safety, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) and the airport authority in the last one year  began the  process leading to the certification of Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, in Kano. NCAA’s Director-General, Captain Musa Nuhu said a technical team by the authority has visited the airport for the proposed certification. Aside from Kano Airport, the authority is carrying out inspection on the construction of perimeter road for security operations for the runway markings at Calabar Airport. Managing Director, Centurion Aviation Security Limited, Group Captain John Ojikutu (rtd), said the Federal Government must sustain its drive in ensuring upgrade of the security infrastructure at airports. Besides assisting the airport authority with the required material and personnel requirements to sustain the country’s drive to scale global certification. Also, Chief Executive Officer, West Link Airlines, Captain Ibrahim Mshelia said in  the last one year, the airport authority has taken steps to push for well secured airports. He said: “The airports are secure to the extent that they have perimeter fencing, to ensure the safety of operations around them.” Appraising the intervention of the Federal Government in the sector, in the last one year, Minister of Aviation, Captain Hadi Sirika said steps had been taken to scale up facilities at some airports, including Lagos’, where automation was activated at the Hajj/Cargo access Gate. Sirika said the Federal Government put in place, a bird/wildlife management equipment  secured international collaboration from the United Kingdom Department for Transport training for Nigeria’s aviation security personnel to boost the strategic security dialogue.Confirming the interventions, Yadudu said: “Since 2021, the government has taken steps to upgrade the check -in facility architecture at major airports nationwide. He said: “In the last one year, the government has embarked on projects intended to raise the bar in securing international certification for the country following ongoing construction of the Cargo Terminal at the Port Harcourt International Airport, Omagwa, Rivers State. “Since the resumption of International flights at Akanu Ibiam International Airport Enugu by  Ethiopian Airlines, efforts are being ramped up on security with over 67 FAAN Aviation Security Officers graduating from the  ICAO standard  Standard Training Programme 123 Basic & Refresher Course to improve level of security at airports “The government has also embarked on the  inspection of on-going construction of perimeter road for security/operation inspections and runway markings at the Margaret Ekpo International Airport, Calabar. Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja also  received additional seven  co-buses with a 100 passengers capacity to boost facilitation. FAAN, also took delivery of new VIP airside buses for Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. In order to boost passenger facilitation on the airside.  Rehabilitation of restrooms at Nnamdi’s Azikiwe International Airport Abuja.”