Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said Nasarawa State is on its way to being the third largest investment destination by next year. He commended the Governor, Abdullahi Sule for providing conducive business environment for the huge influx of foreign and local investors into the state. Osinbajo stated this yesterday in Lafia when the governor opened Nasarawa Investment Summit, with the theme ‘Diamond in the rough: The making of a new investment frontier’ Sule assembled participants from across the world in the Aliyu Akwe Doma Banquet Hall of Government House, Lafia to brainstorm on ways of investing in the state. In his keynote, Osinbajo noted that Sule’s policy of public private, partnership to woo investors into the state was commendable. According to him, “Today, it is clear that Engineer Sule has demonstrated his political will by implementing the Nasarawa Investment policy document that has earned the state a huge investment worth over $500million.   MTN’s shareholder base up by over 6.6m     Airtel: NIN/SIM regulations affected us     FIRS, NCC set up committee to boost revenue   “Nasarawa State is on its way to be the third largest investment destination in the country by 2023,” Osinbajo said. It was gathered that agriculture and solid minerals were in the front burner of deliberations at the summit. President, Dangote Group Dr Aliko Dangote said his investment on a 68 hectares of land  was just the beginning of his investment in the state. Former President of Ghana, John Mahama in his keynote commended the state governor for creating investment opportunities to boost the wealth of the state. Mahama, however, urged the state government to create basic infrastructures that would encourage more influx of investors into the state. He appealed to the government to take the issue of security very serious, noting that no investor will put his money where security of business is not guaranteed. Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, 14th Emir of Kano, Lamido Sanusi, Chairman of Nasarawa State Economic Advisory Council Prof Konyinsola Ajayi (SAN) and many others attended the summit.