We have seen the misleading press release signed by Mr. Sunday Bisi, the ousted state chairman of Osun PDP who has now been compensated with the post of the Director-General of Adeleke’s campaign organisation, alleging foul play against the person of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola ahead of the July 16 elections in Osun. It is unfortunate that Sunday Bisi has decided to drive his falsities into the public sphere in such a shameful manner, all in a bid to aggravate tension in the state ahead of the elections. Sunday Bisi, who is either scared of telling his funder the truth about his slim chances against a proven man of substance or is as delusional as the dancer himself, is only trying to play mind games with the good people of Osun by shamelessly making allegations he cannot substantiate. Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has earned a reputation as a man that plays according to rules, and this has been proven over and again in his three-and-a-half years as governor of Osun. He is very much unlike Sunday Bisi and his patron, who have lost confidence in the potency of their misguided spendings and are now resorting to lies and campaign of calumny.   Ochicha: APC should do away with politics of exclusion     Abiodun, APC primary and shape of things to come     PDP primary: A three horse-race?   The Oyetola-led government is neither lousy nor noisy. That does not in any way mean timidity or lack of political will. We are aware of all the under the table and beneath-decency-ways of the PDP and its candidate. We are also AWARE of the many meetings within and outside the state the PDP henchmen have held to taint the July 16 poll. Of course, we understand they are terrified and hiding their fears under infantile tantrums. All their campaign balloons have been deflated by Governor Adegboyega Oyetola’s sterling performance. Now they are scrambling and grabbing at straws to stay afloat. But, the die is cast. This new laughable accusation is their reaction to the earth shaking endorsement by the Labour Unions in Osun on Workers’ Day. The vote of confidence left the PDP clan gasping for breath. We were expecting the tantrum. It took them 96 long hours for them to come up with this justification for their anticipated loss at the polls. We sympathise with them but with a strong warning that they should not heat up the polity just because they are stuck and unhappy. We are monitoring their desperate moves and the appropriate authorities have been notified.