The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ebonyi State has failed again to hold its delegates congress on Wednesday. It was the third time the congress will fail to hold. The congress was initially slated to hold on Saturday, May 30 but was shifted due to the leadership issues surrounding the sack of the state Chairman Tochukwu Okorie. The court had sacked Okorie and ordered that Silas Onu be installed as the Chairman. Ọnụ could not immediately take over the leadership of the party as the National Working Committee of the party needed to ratify the decision. Silas will later take over the party secretariat on Monday ahead of the delegate congress. On Tuesday, the shootings at the party secretariat by gunmen marred the exercise. The exercise also did not hold following the late arrival of the party’s ad-hoc committee from Abuja. It was shifted to Wednesday as a result. On Wednesday, disagreement among the committee members and squabbles among major stakeholders in the state scuttled the exercise. Chairman of the ad-hoc Committee set up by the national leadership of the party to conduct the congress, Prof. Wilson Emmanuel Akachi and the State Chairman of the Party, Silas Onu engaged in war of words over the botched congress.   Aba hotel denies murder cases     Tight security as Buhari visits Ebonyi     Police in Lagos arrest Lebanese for reckless driving   While Akachi accused Onu of holding him hostage and forcing him to release result sheets for eight local government areas to unknown persons, Onu accused Akachi of plotting to thwart the exercise in connivance with some stakeholders in the State. Briefing reporters at the Secretariat late in the afternoon on Wednesday, Akachi said he didn’t know those he gave the eight letters and result sheets for the election. He said: “I have come to address the press and indeed the party members on the situation on ground as a man of integrity. I arrived Abakaliki capital city with 13 letters meant for the party leaders. “The State Party Chairman, Barr. Silas Onu took me to a hotel inside the town and forcefully asked me to handover the letters to him under duress and tension at gun point. “He collected the letters meant for the party leaders. When calls started coming from Abuja, he was left with no option than to leave me with the remaining 5 letters and as a man of integrity, I thought it wise to address the press, party leaders and members on ground before traveling back to Abuja”. But Silas denied holding Akachi hostage. “If he said he was held hostage, how then did he leave the hotel with all the security that went with him to the secretariat? How come he left with the remaining five results sheets?” Ọnụ accused the Ad-hoc committee Chairman of working for the interest of a few aspirants. “Since he came into the state, he has been trying to get the election postponed. He never wanted to conduct the election. He was trying to convince other members of his committee to postpone the election,” Ọnụ said. He urged the national leadership of the party to change the chairman and possibly replace the entire committee. He explained the people who were given the results were returning officers who were sent by the national leadership to conduct the elections. “They were properly identified before they were given the results. The remaining five results which the Chairman of the committee still has were not given out because those officials for the five remaining councils were yet to arrive the State,” he said. Ọnụ explained that the congress could not hold because the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) did not send election monitors to monitor the election.