An emeritus professor, Razaq Abubakre, has predicted that the achievements of Osun governor, Gboyega Oyetola in his first tenure will make him win a second term in office. Oyetola is eligible and has been re-nominated by his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) to contest the governorship election coming up in July in Osun. Abubakre, an indigene of the state, declared while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Osogbo on Sunday that Oyetola is an effective leader who achieves a lot without making noise. He said the governor’s victory in the July governorship election would be more convincing than what he secured for the party in the 2019 general elections. According to Abubakre, the governor is the type of person who turns challenges into opportunities, and this will be the trajectory for a resounding victory in the 2022 poll. “Governor Oyetola’s quiet mien will give him away in the estimation of hostile critics that he may not be able to face a big audience for a persuasive political campaign. “However, such an erroneous notion is dispelled when his intellectual presentation serves as a bedrock to his power of voice. “In a way, Oyetola is similar to Prime Minister Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, whose appearance was humble but whose power of voice and wisdom earned him transcontinental applause as the golden voice of Africa. “Both Balewa and Oyetola are not known for verbosity, but they rule the minds of their audience, the masses, with their oratory power laden with clarity, concision and pristine precision. “Both are simple in appearance but full in their inner man,” he said. Abubakre said that with a slim win in 2018, rather than withdrawing to his shell, the governor rolled up his sleeve and girded his loin to embark on a nostrum to win back the voters’ minds. He said that in less than a year after his slim victory, he repositioned APC to its erstwhile winning trend with a clear majority in all the elective posts in the 2019 general elections. Abubakre said Oyetola had exhibited excellent strategic leadership despite the turbulence that led to the disruption of government revenue due to the COVID-19 health crisis. The retired professor said the Osun governor provided a compelling vision of empathy for all by showing understanding for the downtrodden.   Osun 2022: I’m not ‘fire for fire’ –…     Everything will work in Nigeria with Amaechi – Gov…     ‘No plans to foist Adeola as Ogun West APC senatorial…   He said Oyetola effectively disbursed social interventions in the form of palliatives to alleviate the suffering of those most severely affected by the COVID-19 global health scourge in the state. Abubakre said such commitment to the bottom of the pyramid was particularly commendable as some leaders who had more resources reportedly hoarded donated food items meant to ease the suffering of the needy. He said Osun remained one of the safest states in Nigeria through the choices, respect of citizenry rights and laws that stipulated the relationships between individuals and organisations Abubakre said such laws also offered opportunities for improvements, accountability, and accommodation of all perspectives embraced by the Oyetola administration. “Furthermore, even though the Federal Government’s revenue subvention to all states including Osun has diminished, the Governor has demonstrated excellent and judicious use of resources. “Under the leadership of Governor Oyetola, Osun State Government has initiated innovative, specially targeted and timely financial and good governance initiatives for the sustainable and inclusive development of the state. “Governor Oyetola has blocked leakages, reduced waste, and diversified the state’s revenue stream via investment and initiatives that have generated new sources of revenue for Osun. “Oyetola’s administration has continued to meet his obligations in the form of payment of remuneration to public officials and pensioners in the state. “Also, the governor’s prudent management of financial resources has made it possible for the state to continue investing in critical human and physical infrastructure. “This has unlocked significant benefits for the citizenry of Osun,” he said. Abubakre said the governor’s achievements were so impressive that a national daily, Vanguard newspaper, bestowed on him the Personality Of The Year award. Abubakre is a professor of Arabic Language, former Vice-Chancellor of Al-Hikmah University, Ilorin, and former Federal Commissioner, Public Complaints Commission. He was also a former Chairman, College of Education, Ila Orangun, Osun and former Dean, Faculty of Arts, University of Ilorin. (NAN)