What do you make of the Goodluck Jonathan pantomime — the former PDP president being goaded to run on APC platform? Laugh? Cry?  Do both as bewitching combo?  Or treat yourself to a neither-nor medley in-between? Is that how little Nigerian power hustlers think of the voting public? Dr. Jonathan!  On him, everything well-neigh crashed — no thanks to blind heists!  So, the damaged good of seven years ago is now some hustlers’ new messiah? So what?  The Jonathan camp might well retort.  Isn’t Nigeria broken now, as Father Matthew Kukah, the Catholic Archbishop of Sokoto, claimed at Easter? Still, just as well: the Jonathan absurdity may have been scuttled by a constitutional amendment!  But you’ll underrate the Nigerian power hustler-colony at your own peril. From Jonathan to Muhammadu Buhari: the president who, by regnant hysteria, seems tumbled from commander-in-chief to garbage can-in-chief — a fate he shares with Jonathan at the twilight of Jonathan’s own presidency. A case of clear deja vu?  Perhaps.  But two similar historical junctures are never exactly the same.  As Heraclitus the Greek philosopher said, you can’t step in the same river twice. So, Muhammadu Buhari is not unlike Eman, in Wole Soyinka’s play, The Strong Breed.  He was “carrier” for his scornful, unappreciative folks who nevertheless were doomed, had Eman not sacrificed himself and carried their rot. Did you swear you saw divine Jesus in Eman’s secular form?  Tell it not to religious bigots! Buhari virtually kills himself, trying to fix a country broken by the thieving gangs under President Jonathan. Post-Jonathan, it’s been citizens’ merry excesses — not unlike wild Isrealites plumbing  into idolatry and coital orgy, as Moses came from the harsh, high Mount Sinai, bearing the rocky tablets of the Ten Commandments. At that mad sight, the stuttering, irate and thundering Moses crashed everything in incandescent rage. But from the taciturn Buhari here, it’s been a loud quiet.  He soaks up the insults and hopes his quiet work, now scorned — in agriculture and infrastructure and social safety nets — would eventually silence his traducers; and expose their bedlam of folly — especially when those investments start remaking the economy. Quiet, quality work, in resource-challenged times, as dire, future testimonial against grumpy traducers? That again echoes the Christ Jesus, telling his disciples to flick the dust off their scandals as grim evidence against resisters to the gospel.  That divine injunction has today spawned Jehovah’s Witnesses. Still, the eventual fate of President Buhari’s hard investments is in the womb of time. For now, it is harsh not only fixing a broken economy, it’s doubly painful emplacing a new economic direction from SAP, imposed by the Babangida regime in 1986. That appears the idea behind the Buhari tri-strategy: agriculture (to slash forex-spends on food imports), infrastructure (to relaunch the local real sector) and social safety nets (to tide over the the poorest in the land).   Licence to loot?     Leadership and nagging paradox of four generations     Parties and the zoning dilemma   By the way, how might Nigeria have coped with the Russia-Ukraine war, with the 2015 crazy food import bill? But with the Nigerian penchant for sparkling brilliance sans wisdom, just a few, of the elite critical mass, seems to understand that strategy. Even fewer still realize the imperative to build a national consensus around this survivalist policy, in a season of high national peril. So, such bedlam of empty voices, which hardly provides any solutions, accounts for the present fashionable hysteria. Even then, the Buhari government wears much diffused insecurity, like the ancient mariner’s albatross — much diffused because though the Jonathan-era Boko Haram plague is much curtailed, banditry, kidnapping and violent crimes have seeped all over. That clearly undermines the Buhari strides in agriculture and infrastructure, as could be gleaned from the Kaduna terrorist train attack; insecure farmers fleeing farms, and thuggish Igbo-on-Igbo killings in the South East. The South West enjoys a relative calm because the “Yoruba Nation” agitation ran out of steam.  Had the rash Sunday Igboho not snared himself at Benin Republic, perhaps the Yoruba country would now have been a volcano of Yoruba-on-Yoruba violence. That brings the discourse back to the Kukah Easter charge that Nigeria was “broken”. If Nigeria is well and truly broken, especially on the religious front along Kukah’s holy dreams, how come the good Father, a Catholic and northern Christian, is still eating tuwon shinkafa and tuwon masara in Sokoto, the spiritual headquarters of northern Muslims; and belting explosive Easter messages, in his cathedral, from there? By the way, by his Easter media thunder, what biblical model was Kukah aping — Moses, grumpy at the recalcitrant Israelites?  Elijah, full of bile at King Ahab and predicting his doom — both in the Old Testament? Or the loving-kindness of Jesus (with his unceasing meekness and compassion) who made Peter the rock of Christ, on which the Catholic Church is built? The solemn point is that the religious elite, as their media, political and sundry cousins, completely miss this historical epoch; and are busy applying lowest-common-denominator puff, huff and gruff, if one could borrow that mathematical imagery. The holy fathers and sacred mullahs must be praised for “speaking prophetic truth to power” (to again quote Father Kukah’s romantic prose).  But who will speak “un-prophetic truth” to these fathers and mullahs? If they had done their duty as the nation’s moral police and guardians, how come their charges are stealing the nation blind?  Didn’t the holy Father Kukah himself tell the nation to “move on” and forget the wild heist of the Jonathan era? The point?  Mounting the pulpit and pointing fingers won’t do.  Insecurity is a function of past brazen injustices; and ringing corruption that has disinherited the majority, as it was under President Jonathan — and Olusegun Obasanjo before him. So, as Buhari and his government face the heat and take the flak for actions and inactions over insecurity, the holy normative police and their sacred shrines too must face close, if not harsh, scrutiny. They must work extra hard on their congregants’ soul; and try wean them of the merry decadence that plagues the land.  That way, every segment of Nigerians would have risen to this dangerous, nation-threatening epoch. As for political rascals busy thrusting Goodluck Jonathan, the message is short and sharp: Jonathan was not, is not, and never will be any solution. So, let the dead horse stay dead!