This headline could equally have read: “Before South West self-destroys” but for the turn of fate that took the wind off the sail of “Yoruba Nation” agitators. Nevertheless, the mis-principle behind both is the same: the tragic delusion that you can milk visceral hate of others to drive fraternal love among your own. In those heyday of love to hate, the “Fulani herdsmen” committed every crime in the land, with hot vengeance to destroy the “South”; and the dominant southern media, with bated breath, boomed that hateful gospel! Yet, those same “ethnic cleansers”, allegedly with the sworn mission to wipe out the “South”, are now busy savagely sacking their own, in Sokoto, Kaduna, Zamfara and Niger, as bandits, terrorists and sundry doomsday wreckers! Talk of misdiagnosing a national security crisis for an ethnic affront! But back to the South East, where the gruesome killing in Imo State, of a military couple en route to their traditional wedding, just headlined that region’s mad bolt into unfettered barbarity. It all started with Prof. Chinua Achebe’s There Was A Country, the celebrated writer’s swan song, which nevertheless gave a garbled account of the Nigerian Civil War (1967-1970). Then, the Igbo political elite lost federal power in 2015 and Nnamdi Kanu, a PDP diaspora hustler, in the Jonathan era of PDP rule, became acclaimed hater-in-chief, hauling explosive slurs at other ethnics. Those who should have cautioned Kanu kept mute; sure Kanu’s scalding hate could only hurt the non-Igbo.  Costly delusion — for the tragic reverse is playing out! Now, Kanu is in the can, defending himself against terrorism charges.  But the South East dirge may well go back to Chinua Achebe’s Things Fall Apart, his debut classic: “Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold/Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world …” True, those were original poetics from the Irish William Butler Yeats, in his famous poem, “The Second Coming”: itself echoing Irish troubles and explosive Europe, immediately after World War 1. But those words were irretrievably etched in local Nigerian minds by the Achebe classic, Things Fall Apart! So, Achebe’s swan song, There Was A Country, provided philosophical vim for Igbo romantic anomie, from Civil War hurts.  But his glorious debut also captures the creeping anarchy — Things Fall Apart! Talk of an Alpha and Omega of a sort!  Yet, the old man rests deep in his sleep!  Only the living — and the youth — carry the can! Turn the camera to pan the South West, and the difference  may not be so glaring, particularly with the exploits of Prof. Banji Akintoye and his “Yoruba Nation” lobby. Prof. Akintoye, revered historiographer, wrote a glorious account of Yoruba history, A History of the Yoruba People — an authoritative account that makes your head swell as an ethnic Yoruba. But the scholar’s latest campaign should worry not a few. Yoruba nationalism is not the problem, per se.  In a jumbled Nigerian federation, where each ethnic fiercely competes to corner the national cake, a touch of ethnic pride could come handy.   Election-eve games     Easter 2022     Obey: To a legend at 80   The snag with the “Yoruba Nation” push, however, is that it is powered by extreme Fulani hate.  Hate is always no good, for it cripples your thinking process. Besides, even from Prof. Akintoye’s A History of the Yoruba People and from Chief Obafemi Awolowo’s excellent developmental work in the old Western Region, the Yoruba would appear too accomplished to need the visceral hate of others to fly.  Yet, what drives the Oodua Republic push is ethnic phobia, powered by Fulani hate and condescension. If you doubt, see how “Yoruba Nation” went ga-ga, after UN Secretary-General, Antonio Guterress confirmed that Boko Haram was much curtailed in the North East. To be sure, the Guterress verdict, based on verifiable facts from his May 3-4 tour of Nigeria, could be unintended de-marketing of the “Yoruba Nation” cause, since the lobbyists never tire of claiming the UN right to self-determination supports their cause. Even then, the lobby’s disdain for the president and his Fulani folks was all too predictable: Buhari, a “Yoruba Nation” release by Maxwell Adeleye, its communications manager claimed, was running a “government of the Fulani, by the Fulani and for the Fulani.”  Imagine the cross-ethnic bile — hot, fresh and smoking — oozing from that base statement! Yet, a Yoruba man, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, is not only No. 2 in that government, he is among the 25, across many ethnics — and still counting! — clamouring to take over “a government of the Fulani, by the Fulani and for the Fulani”, in the ruling APC alone! Of course, the “Yoruba Nation” lobby have their democratic right to love or hate.  But to suck in the entire Yoruba to their whims is as presumptuous as it is tragic, especially since they have no democratic instrument — a plebiscite, for instance — to that effect. Besides, you only can see the start of a hate campaign.  You can’t fathom the sure self-destruction mass hate would bring.  If you doubt, see the South East killings. This is tough but nevertheless must be said: Prof. Achebe’s There Was A Country provided the philosophical base for today’s creeping anarchy in the South East.  The good professor had done his bit; and rests in bliss.  But the Igbo youth carry the can. May Prof. Akintoye enjoy many years yet, in good health and in sound mind. But as former President Olusegun Obasanjo would say, the famed historian sits at the departure lounge. All those Yoruba youths and others being sucked into his lobby’s Fulani hate campaign had better learn from what is now playing out in the South East.  Long after the good professor is gone, these youths and others would hold the short end of the stick. You can’t but feel for Chukwuma Soludo, the new Anambra governor.  Many had swooned and sworn his coming would be some Ndigbo renaissance. Yet, all he has to contend with is the rubbish of the so-called “unknown gunmen” bumping off innocent people; or some thugs, imposing sit-at-home on Mondays, when even IPOB claims it is through with such mercantile no-brainer. That reminds the historic-minded of the Niger Delta New Avengers, sworn to crippling the new Buhari government, simply because PDP lost power; and New Avengers’ cadres lost Jonathan-era sweetheart deals! The South East experience appears extra-horrific because even IPOB now cries — earnest or dissembling? — whodunnit?  Imagine New Avengers back then screaming  ”who did it?”, at the bombing of yet another oil facility! Things fall apart!  Mere anarchy is loosed upon the East! Sure, Nigeria has challenges.  But the cure is clinical introspection and deep thinking, not the emotive self-destruction, playing out in the South East. That is the war cry the South East elite must bawl, as they start a race against time to save their cherished homeland from self-destruction, by home-bred dregs.