Erling Haaland has reached an agreement to join Manchester City next season. Along with Kylian Mbappe, Haaland is the most coveted young player in the world so much so that the pair have been tipped to take over from Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo as the game’s dominant global icons. Mbappe is still at the centre of his own transfer saga between Paris Saint-Germain and Real Madrid, which could see him move on a free this summer, but on Tuesday it was announced that Manchester City have won the €60 million race for Haaland. Haaland’s arrival at Manchester City will make the English champions an even more ruthless attacking force. His signing, which for a player of Haaland’s youth and ability, the transfer fee is relatively low in a market where stars tend to move for around twice that amount, ends City’s search for a recognised striker to replace the departed Sergio Aguero. The move is deemed as a sort of homecoming for the 21-year-old, He was born in England a month after his father Alf-Inge Haaland joined the club from Leeds, and there are still employees who remember holding him as a baby. Haaland and his father were in the stands at Wembley for City’s 3-1 win over Sunderland in the 2014 League Cup final. City look after their former players, and Alfie has been back a number of times over the years as a guest or fan. According to sources, Erling feels he’s joining a club with which he has “an emotional connection.” Manchester  City scouts — like most around the world — have been aware of Haaland since he made his senior debut for Bryne in Norway as a 15-year-old in 2016, and his reputation as a powerful, prolific goal scorer has only increased in the years since. After a spell under former Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer at Molde, he scored 29 goals in 27 games as a teenager for Austrian side FC Salzburg. Haaland’s astonishing goal-scoring record has made him one of the hottest properties in European football but Manchester City have won the race to snatch him from Borussia Dortmund. Haaland shot to prominence in 2019 when he scored six Champions League goals in his first three games. After hitting a hat-trick on his European debut for Red Bull Salzburg in September that year against Genk, he also struck against Liverpool and Napoli. His 29 goals in 27 games for Salzburg sparked rumours of a reunion with his former manager at Molde, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, who was then at Manchester United. But Dortmund’s track record of developing young talent and United’s refusal to insert a release clause in his contract took him to Germany instead. The goals have continued to flow despite the step up to one of Europe’s top leagues.   Protests in Imo communities as robbers, kidnappers take over…     #JusticeForDeborah: More outrage over murder of female…     Black Wednesday as midnight power surge kills four   Haaland scored a hat-trick on his debut as a substitute in Germany’s Bundesliga, needing just 20 minutes to bang in three goals and seal a 5-3 win at Augsburg. “That’s what you signed me for,” the Leeds-born forward told Dortmund sporting director Michael Zorc. With one game of his career at Dortmund to go, Haaland has struck 85 times in 88 appearances. However, his two-and-a-half years in the German top-flight delivered just one trophy, when he scored twice in last year’s German Cup final. For Pep Guardiola, City’s manager, Haaland’s arrival will help the already free-scoring Man City score even more next season. City have not played with an orthodox striker since Aguero’s exit last summer, and arguably much longer given the Argentinian’s injury problems for the final part of his otherwise brilliant career with the club. This season Gabriel Jesus, Bernardo Silva, Phil Foden, Jack Grealish, De Bruyne, Raheem Sterling, Mahrez and Ferran Torres have all played as a false nine, but now City have a real one. “Definitely, he can help us score more. It is not about that. In the end it is about winning games,” Guardiola, said.”I never thought that our defensive situation depends on the central defender and I never thought that the goals we score depend on the striker. He has scored a lot of goals in his career and we are going to try to help him through the game, having more chances to score goals. “We are never going to give him the responsibility to score goals. We have to win games and if we are going to win games we need everyone doing it the best way, arriving as much as possible. After, of course, if we arrive there, with the quality that we believe he has, we can do it.” Haaland would play the role as City’s chaos agent, the character who has the capacity to strike decisively before any devious scheme is fully formed. His new team now has a man without a preamble, a protagonist who shoots top-corner first and asks questions later. Since their greatest European heartbreaks have come in the last minutes of close games, Haaland is there to ensure that there are no such twists in the tale. It is ironic, and maybe it is fitting, that the addition of a new and unpredictable element to their squad promises to bring an end to City’s most uncomfortable drama. Meanwhile, Kevin de Bruyne chose an even better way of welcoming Erling Haaland to Manchester City. After the Belgian scored the third goal of his magnificent four-goal haul against Wolves on Wednesday night, he celebrated in style by copying Haaland’s iconic meditation celebration. It was quite the statement. Just a day after City announced they had agreed to sign the prolific Norway striker from Borussia Dortmund, they hardly looked short of attacking power at Molineux. Wolves did not even play that badly, yet with De Bruyne at the centre of the storm they were blown away as City won 5-1 and moved to within four points of a fourth Premier League title in five seasons.