Director General of the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Mr. Alex Okoh has assured that the Bureau is willing to deploy its expertise to assist the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS) in its efforts to develop some projects through public private partnership (PPP). These are: cattle ranching and dairy processing factories in three states – Sokoto, Kano and Imo; agricultural farms in many states of the federation; industrial entities and the correctional centres’ land swapping projects. Okoh stated this during a courtesy visit to the Comptroller General (CG) of the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS), Haliru Nababa at the NCoS Headquarters in Abuja. “BPE with more than 30 years’ experience in the reform and optimisation of Federal Government’s assets through different strategies including concession, coupled with the  additional responsibility  that has been assigned to us  in the PPP space through the Federal Government’s  policy Circular on the Administration of Concession in Nigeria, is ready to collaborate with the service actively by   offering  its technical expertise and experience  to ensure the successful execution and completion of the concession process for   the projects,” Okoh said. He commended the commitment and efforts of Nababa and his team towards repositioning the NCoS into a strong, reliable and transformative institution through some of the laudable initiatives and projects being implemented by his leadership.   1,490 illegal routes enter Nigeria, says NIS     ‘How to avert collapse of wheat value chain’     Polaris Bank, LSETF launch N1b fund to empower artisans   According to him, the feedback from the Bureau team’s interfacing with the NCoS on the level of professionalism, commitment  and desire of the NCoS’ PPP Unit towards ensuring that some of the potential  projects of the service  across the different sectors of the economy, are developed and optimised by attracting private sector investment  through a robust and transparent PPP process, have been encouraging . He noted that the recent opening of responses to the Request for Qualifications (RfQ) issued by the Service for some of its projects, is a testimony to NCoS readiness and commitment to unlock values and optimise the potentials of those assets. In his response, Nababa, represented by the Deputy Comptroller General (DCG), Operations (Non-Custodial Duties), Mohammed Tukur, commended the Bureau for its support and guide for the success of its PPP projects which include relocation/infrastructural development, agricultural development and industrial projects. He recalled that the projects were dear to the NCoS as they would transform and strengthen the institutions of the NCoS because of their potentials to unlock value of the Service and the Federal Government at large. The CG solicited the cooperation of the Bureau in other areas that would add value to Service as the “mandate of BPE cuts across all agencies in the country”.