Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike has begged Lagos Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for support towards becoming the presidential candidate of his party. The PDP presidential aspirant made the appeal in Lagos during a consultation parley with the party leaders, executive, delegates and members of the opposition party. He said he has what it takes to lead the country but needed all the votes of the chapter’s delegates to emerge the winner of his party’s presidential primary slated for May 28 and 29, 2022. The aspirant, who was accompanied by Oyo Governor, Seyi Makinde, former Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose, former Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mohammed Adoke among other party chieftains promised to give everyone fair representation if he emerges the winner of the primary. He said: “I have come to Lagos state as somebody who is committed and sincere, to beg you for your votes during our forthcoming presidential primaries. “You all know that I have been a constant party member having joined since 1998. I am not like some that are not stable has brought misfortune to our party. “Our party was not in the opposition before. We were the ruling party. But, some who are now canvassing for your votes mismanaged our party and that made us to lose in 2015. “Don’t give power to those who will use the opportunity to form another party. “Even if I don’t win the ticket, I will support whoever emerges. It is not about man-know-man, it is about who can win election for the PDP. Simple! “It is not about story, but who has the capacity to face the APC. I have the capacity to win election for the PDP. “I will not run away. I will face APC squarely. They tried it in Rivers and they failed.   Train attack: Terrorists release pregnant woman     BREAKING: Liverpool beat Chelsea on penalties to win FA Cup…     BREAKING: Tears as Deborah Samuel is laid to rest   “If you give me this ticket on May 28 and 29, my people, go and sleep with your two eyes closed. “I have been tested on different fronts and the evidence is there. “I am running to be president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. But to do this, we must secure the country, her citizens and her property. I am ready to ensure protection of lives and property, first, he assured. “We need a firm, focused and forthright leader, who will stand up to these challenges. And it is only a strong person like me and not a lily-livered person, who can’t stand the government. “Some people will come and tell you theory. Some people will say they left so much money in government coffers when there were problems. Why leaving much money in the coffers, when you were elected to solve problems? “The energy in me is too much and I want to serve Nigeria. I am strong. My job is to stay and work and let Nigeria be better. I have the intellect to do that.” The Governor who boosted to know the ruling party too well, pleaded:”Let me tell you that I depend on the Southwest to become the presidential candidate of our party. If this zone gives me its vote, I have won the election already. He urged the state chapter to give honour to the party leaders and avoid division within. “Leadership is not only the national working committee. There are other leaders and workers in the party. I believe from today, I won’t hear any problem in the party in the state. “Let us give honour to whom honour is due. The working committee coming should from time to time engage the leader, Chief Bode George, who has paid his dues. Do your part and we will support you and you’ll win next election in the state. “My presidency will not be a dump presidency, it will be lively and most engaging”.