The stoning to death and burning of Deborah Samuel by some students of Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto (SSCOE) over alleged blasphemy has continued to stir outrage from Nigerians on social media. Angry Nigerians expressed shock and sadness over the barbaric action. The sad development caused unsparing tweets, posts, comments. They condemned the resort by Sokoto students to jungle justice while the hashtag #JusticeForDeborah trended on Twitter for several hours. Also, a petition has been launched to get justice for Deborah, has gathered over 1,800 signatories. The petition started by a journalist, Dotun Olawoye on change.org to Sokoto Government and the Nigerian Police Force, called for the prosecution of Deborah’s killers, stating that failure to do this will attract more deaths. Checks by The Nation as of the time of filing this report showed the petition had garnered 1,900 signatories. Reacting, the British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing said: “I condemn the murder of Deborah Samuel in Sokoto, and urge the police and relevant authorities to ensure the perpetrators of this horrific act are made to face justice in line with the law.   Protests in Imo communities as robbers, kidnappers take over…     Black Wednesday as midnight power surge kills four     APC ticket: Tinubu, Osinbajo, Adesina, 22 other presidential…   Former Minister of Education, Oby Ezekwesili said: “I have decided to withdraw my Speaking commitment to @NigBarAssoc for its event holding in Sokoto. I was billed to speak from abroad via Zoom but even now will no longer do so. “NBA should seize this moment to reflect on how relevant its actions are in a troubled democracy. NBA owes citizens like DeborahSamuel, EuniceOlawale, BridgetAgbaheme the judicial activism to enforce Justice.” Force spokesman, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi said: “Blasphemy; the killing of Deborah in Sokoto by some individuals today was uncalled for. The act was barbaric, uncivilised and criminal. “The Commissioner of Police, Sokoto State Command has been directed to carry out thorough investigation into the matter, arrest the culprits in connection with the heinous crime and prosecute them accordingly. “We believe that at this modern day, we should have adopted civilised approaches to address issues of this nature, not gruesome killing of a follow citizen. “We assure the general public that justice will be done. May the soul of Deborah rest in peace while we commiserate with her family, friends and colleagues. Thanks.” Social Commentator Fredrick Nwabufo said: “It is disingenuous to make the killing in Sokoto about a people. Violence is not an ethnic preserve. “Our society subsists on a culture of violence – whether in the streets where alleged pickpockets are lynched or in neighbourhoods where people are murdered over an agitation. Deal with the culture of violence and abuse. Activist lawyer Abdul Mahmud said: “Deborah Yakubu, northern Christian, was from Zuru in Kebbi state. If you know the sufferings of Northern minorities and Christians, you’ll appreciate the need to restructure this country. The North is NOT one. We owe it a duty to defend Christian minorities of the North.”