The emergence of former House of Representatives member, Ladi Adebutu and a former spokesman of the Atiku Campaign Organisation,Segun Showunmi, as factional Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidates at parallel primaries held in Abeokuta, Ogun State, on Wednesday, is fuelling a new wave of crisis in the troubled party, reports ‘Dare Odufowokan, Assistant Editor. It is now obvious that the several efforts of the national leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to unite the warring groups within the Ogun State chapter of the party did not yield the desired results. Fresh crisis erupted within the troubled party during the week as the political gladiators and the various interest groups within the PDP in the state renewed their rivalry over the gubernatorial ticket of the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. Our correspondent gathered that the outcomes of the governorship primary election conducted in the state on Wednesday have once again triggered another round of infighting, with the two factions claiming to have produced the authentic governorship candidate of the PDP for next year’s election. Party sources fear the new wave of infighting may negatively affect the performance of the opposition party during the general elections. Following months of mutual distrust, two governorship candidates emerged from two different parallel primaries conducted by two parallel factions of the party at separate locations in Abeokuta, the state capital. This is in defiance to warnings by the national leadership of the party that no state chapter should conduct parallel primary elections. The leadership of the party had sent delegations round state chapters perceived to be in crisis ahead of the primary elections. But such efforts proved abortive in Ogun state. While the party’s primary election that produced Ladi Adebutu as PDP gubernatorial candidate was held with the supervision of party executives at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL), Segun Sowunmi, spokesperson of Atiku Abubakar presidential campaign in 2019, emerged governorship candidate at a parallel PDP primaries organised at the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Secretariat in Abeokuta. Adebutu, who once represented Remo North Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives, defeated three other contestants in the election. Announcing the result of the nomination exercise at exactly 10:50pm on Wednesday, the chairman of the electoral committee, Akase Sorkaa, said Adebutu polled a total of 714 votes to defeat Segun Sowunmi, Jimi Lawal and Abimbola Abodunrin who all polled zero votes. Adebutu wins In the presence of the officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the Sorkaa-led PDP primary election committee declared that, “Hon. Ladi Adebutu, having scored the highest number of votes, is hereby declared the winner of the Ogun 2023 governorship primary and the candidate of the PDP for the Ogun 2023 gubernatorial election.” The declaration threw supporters of the Iperu-born politician into jubilations at the venue of the primary election. Party sources said the National Secretariat of the party will only reckon with the primary election that produced Adebutu as it is the one conducted by its team sent for the exercise. The Nation gathered that the Akase Sorkaa-led electoral committee tried to convince all the aspirants to shun any form of parallel congress and present themselves at the venue earlier approved for the exercise by the leadership of the party. Speaking after the emergence of Adebutu as the candidate, Sorkaa said he is not aware of any other primary election outside the one conducted by his team at Obasanjo Presidential Library in Abeokuta, the state capital. According to him, the exercise was peacefully conducted with the approved list of delegates. He appreciated the cooperation of the state leadership of the party, the aspirants and other stakeholders. In his acceptance speech, Adebutu expressed satisfaction at the conduct of the exercise, saying he was happy with his election as the candidate of the party. He called on other aspirants to team up with him to wrestle power from the ruling party, All Progressives Congress, APC. “We will continue to encourage the other aspirants, that this journey is for the sake of mankind, and the impoverish people of Ogun State. “It is not for a particular person and it’s the sacrifice that we need to all make. I believe that the other aspirants mean well, and will surely act in the good interest of Ogun State by coming into the fold so that we can do the job together”, he appealed. Dissenting voices   2023: Protests trail APC guber primaries as suspended priest…     Ohakim withdraws from APC Imo North senate race     Reps Appropriation chair gets 5th term ticket   But the emergence of Adebutu as the candidate of the opposition party is being contested by some chieftains of the party. According to reports monitored by our correspondents, earlier same day, at the parallel election that produced Sowunmi, the chairman of the electoral committee, Abayomi Daniel announced that the election will produce the authentic flag-bearer of the party for the 2023 gubernatorial election. That was before declaring Sowunmi as the winner of the election after the votes were counted. Abayomi said, Sowunmi contested against two other aspirants, Jimi Lawal and Ladi Adebutu, who were not physically present, but were represented by their agents at the primaries. He said that a total of 778 delegates were accredited, 702 votes cast and 3 votes were voided, adding that Segun Sowunmi polled 554 votes to defeat his closest rival, Jimi Lawal, who scored 30 votes and Ladi Adebutu that polled 15 votes. “By the power conferred on me by the national leadership of our great party as the chairman electoral committee of the PDP governorship primary election in Ogun, I declare Segun Sowunmi winner of the election, haven polled the highest number of votes and he is hereby returned and elected. Sowunmi, who was visibly elated, lauded members of the party for their support and promised not to let them down, just as he called on other aspirants to work together with him to secure victory for the party in the 2023 general elections. “I humbly accept the nomination as a candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party for Ogun State. I thank all the delegates, I thank all relevant authorities and the security for their efforts. I am particularly impressed by the orderly manner of the primaries. I wish to extend an olive branch of peace and camaraderie to my brothers’ fellow aspirants. It is the beginning of a new dawn in the PDP and a sure step towards a defining moment in our beloved Ogun State,” he appealed. Adebutu, Lawal’s loyalists at war Meanwhile, loyalists of Hon. Adebutu and Jimi Lawal clashed on Wednesday over the delegates’ list to be used for the PDP gubernatorial primary in the state. The process was almost disrupted when loyalists of the two governorship aspirants engaged in fierce confrontations over the delegates list. Trouble started immediately the PDP electoral panel, headed by Prof Sorkaa, commenced the accreditation of delegates. The Nation gathered that supporters of Jimi Lawal complained that the delegates list brought by the PDP electoral committee had been tampered with. According to them, the list was different from the one agreed upon by the aspirants at a meeting earlier in the week. They alleged that the delegates list was not the same as the one with officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), who were at the venue to monitor the exercise. Tempers rose and a serious confrontation arose between supporters of Lawal and Adebutu. Blows were exchanged amidst a serious shouting match between the two groups of politicians. As results of the pushing and shoving that ensued, several members of the party were injured. It took the intervention of security operatives at the venue to restore normalcy after almost an hour. Some supporters of Lawal produced a list they claimed was certified by INEC, insisting it should be adopted. Insisting that the election will be conducted in conformity with the directives of the National Secretariat, the PDP Chairman in Ogun, Hon. Sikirulai Ogundele, called for calm among the warring factions. He insisted that the delegates list brought from Abuja would be used for the shadow election. Similarly, the party secretary in Ogun, Sunday Solarin, said the drama was a plot by some elements to disorganise the exercise. Other party leaders at the venue joined in the calls for calm and led others in a series of dialogues. Eventually, sanity returned and the delegates all agreed to proceed with the exercise. INEC officials, who had earlier left the auditorium, out of fear for their safety, returned to the venue under the protection of security operatives. PDP takes position The party dismissed claims of factionalisation within the party, insisting that the PDP in Ogun state remains united. In a statement after the election, the PDP Publicity Secretary in Ogun State, Akinloye Bankole, the party said it wishes to “extend an honest hand of fellowship to all loyal members of the party who lost out, including all those who contested but lost in the gubernatorial primary to Hon. Adebutu, to remain and work in total harmony with the party and its elected candidates to reposition the party for electoral successes in the coming rounds of general elections.” “Ogun PDP congratulates Hon. (Dr.) Oladipupo Adebutu on his emergence as the party’s gubernatorial candidate in the 2023 general election. The party also congratulated other elected candidates, while appreciating party members, leaders, loyal supporters, the electoral committees on the “successful conduct of all primary elections in Ogun State. In the same vein, the party saluted the unrelenting courage of officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, gentlemen of the press, officers of all security agencies and indeed, other relevant stakeholders as they displayed high level of uncompromising professionalism in the discharge of their statutory duties during the exercises.” He added that the PDP had shown that it was the only democratic political organization in the country. This, he said, has been undoubtedly reinforced by the peaceful, credible and transparent conduct of the Party’s primaries. “We, therefore, call on the ruling APC government to begin to number its days in the government house as our great party is adequately, more than ever before, prepared to reactivate a compassionate partnership with the good people of Ogun State in order to put an end to all the agony and undeserved misery which the ruling APC government represents,” he said.