The Commandant-General of Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Dr Ahmed Audi, yesterday said the corps adopted a non-kinetic approach to deal with criminal to protect civilian casualties. Audi said criminals, such as insurgents, kidnappers and bandits, are now using their victims as shields against military and security operations. He regretted that women and children were the most likely victims of the callous criminal acts and, therefore, called for synergy to ensure that women and children are protected from violence and abuse. Audi spoke at the headquarters of the corps in Abuja while opening a three-day International Gender Summit to address gaps and lapses relating to gender violence, exclusion and abuses. The NSCDC chief applauded the corps for” blazing the trail by organising and hosting the first Gender Summit among military and para-military agencies in Nigeria”.   2022 UTME: JAMB rules out errors in scoring system     Aspirant seeks delegates’ support     NAICOM to boost risk supervision in West Africa   The aim of this programme is, among other things, to build the capacity of participants for effective Gender Responsive Programming and to respond to and deal with issues of Sexual and Gender Based Violence (SGBV), Dr Audi said. He explained that the corps has, over time, established different departments and branches taking into consideration areas where the female personnel can serve effectively. “The programme shall further build a sustainable partnership for dealing with the hydra-headed monster, called Sexual and Gender Based Violence. “This three-day summit which is being organised in collaboration with the International Agency for Gender and Peace features a series of lectures and workshops designed to build the skills of participants and activate their zest for responding to cases of Gender Based Violence in Nigeria,” Dr Audi said. Participants are drawn from Armed Forces, Immigration Service and other institutions, with  members of the California National Guard also present.