No fewer than 15 reggae musicians on Saturday in Lagos excited their fans in a musical festival held in honour of late reggae legend, Bob Marley. The musical festival featured renowned artistes like King Wadada, Baba Fryo, Mervellous Benji, Lamlam, Black Cymean, Faya, Bclean, Benja O, Bunny as well as budding reggae artistes and comedians. The artistes performed Bob Marley’s hit songs, leaving their fans with nostalgic feelings. The musical festival was tagged “Ehi Reggae Jamz Festival”, held at Ehi Resorts, Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that late Bob Marley who was born Feb. 6, 1945, died May 11, 1981, at the age of 36 from cancer. While he lived, he was considered as the most influential reggae star that used his music to fight against injustice, oppression and inequality in the society, regardless of race and religion. The organiser of the show, King Wadada, said the musical festival was to uphold the reggae genre of music to reposition it and re-enact the musical philosophy of late Bob Marley. Wadada said that he had collaborated with Dr Lucky Omogode, Chief Executive Officer of Ehi Resorts, to ensure the musical festival becomes a yearly event to honour the late reggae legend. He said reggae music was a prophetic one which tries to evaluate societal happenings and proffer solutions to them. Omogode, a fan of reggae music, urged the federal government to cooperate with organisations and the media to help in ensuring that the reggae genre of music was upheld.   Full list of AMVCA 8 winners     AMVCA 2022: Ramsey Noah’s Rattlesnake, Funke Akindele…     Why I won’t sympathise with ex-lover over house…   He noted that collaborating with the artistes was his own way of guiding against the dearth of reggae music, as media organisations had limited the rate at which reggae music was aired. He said reggae music remained that genre of music that had continued to convey positive lyrical content, adding that the budding artistes had ensured this virtue was upheld. He, however, urged the artistes to continue to correct societal ills through their music as he promised to continue supporting that genre of music. “I love reggae music so much, it is prophetic, educating and entertaining, unlike the other types of music that are full of jargons, I will continue to do my best in promoting reggae music,” he said. One of the budding artistes, “Lamlam”, performed late Marley’s track, ” No Woman, No Cry”, which alluded to telling a woman not to cry and highlighting the strength of a woman. Another artiste ,”Bunny”, who said late Marley’s music had inspired her during her low moments in life, performed the musical legend’s track “Dont worry”. She encouraged her fans that life’s challenges were normal and would fizzle out over time. Legendary musician, Friday Igwe, popularly known as Baba Fryo, also performed his evergreen music which he produced in 1990, “Dem Go Dey Pose”, as he energetically displayed his “Galala” dance. (NAN)