The presidential primary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has been moved to May 29, 2022. The primary was initially scheduled to hold between May 30 and June 1, 2022. The revision of the schedule of activities and timetable for the 2023 general election is the third review in two weeks. Addressing newsmen after the National Working Committee (NWC) meeting, National Publicity Secretary of the party, Barr. Felix Morka said the APC has approved a revised timetable and schedule of activities. He said: “The National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress has made and approved a revised timetable schedule of activities for the House of Assembly, National Assembly and Governorship primaries. “And appeals that arise from that governorship and House of Representatives primary election will now take place on Thursday May 26, 2022. The Senate and House of Assembly primaries will now take place on Friday to the 17th May 2022.”   IPOB: No plan yet to ban Facebook – FG     Kwara artisans, traders, others endorse Tinubu for President     UPDATED: Court declines Nnamdi Kanu’s request for bail   Morka added the election appeals for Governorship and the House of Representatives would take place on Friday, May 27, 2022, while the appeals for the Senate and House of Assembly primaries would take place on May 28, 2022. “Our special convention on presidential primaries will now take place between Sunday 29th May to Monday 30th of May 2022,” he stated. Asked what mode of election would be used for the presidential primary, the party spokesperson said the mode would be made known in the guidelines that would be made available by the party. He also said that the party has not taken any decision on the zoning of the presidential ticket of the party to the North East as being rumoured on the social media. According to Morka: “There’s no such decision made by the National Working Committee.” When asked if former President Goodluck Jonathan has submitted his form has been speculated, Morka simply said: “I am not aware.”