Five persons, including a woman, were feared dead in a suspected gas cylinder explosion at a storey building located at No. 01, Aba Road, opposite Winners Kid Academy, Sabon Gari area of Fagge local government council of Kano State. The affected building houses a welding workshop owned by 25-year-old Vincent Ezekwe, an indigene of Enugu State. Ezekwe’s body was recovered among the dead. The building collapsed almost at the same time the heavy sound of the explosion was heard, it was learnt. Kano Commissioner of Police Sama’ila Shu’aibu Dikko said he recovered four bodies when he visited the scene of the explosion. The death toll may increase, according to eyewitnesses. Several people, who suffered severe injuries in the explosion, have been hospitalised. Children were among those injured in the blast which occurred around 9:00 am.   I’m ready for probe over alleged N50bn diversion- APC…     Odili made enemies for insisting on Ikwerre successor…     Deborah: NBA postpones Sokoto Conference indefinitely   As of the time of filing this report, an operation was still being conducted through the rubble to rescue those trapped. Police anti-bomb squad and other security agents were at the scene of the incident investigating the cause of the blast. The police commissioner, in a statement by Kano police spokesman, Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa -a Superintendent of Police (SP), said: “A report was received that there was a sound of suspected explosion at Aba by Court Road, Sabon Gari Quarters, Kano.” “On receipt of the report, the Commissioner of Police, Kano State Command, Sama’ila Shu’aibu Dikko, immediately led the command’s combined team of Explosive Ordnance Disposal, Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Defence (EOD-CBRN) and Operation Puff Adder to the scene of the explosion and cordoned off the area. “Four victims (three males and one female), including a Wielder, named Mr. Ejike Vincent, were removed and rushed to Murtala Mohammed Specialist Hospital Kano, where a Medical Doctor certified them dead. “Preliminary Forensic Analysis revealed a suspected Gas Cylinder Explosion with the recovery of Chemicals. Rescue Mission in Progress.”