Climate change activist and Founder of Our Tomorrow Endowment, a pan-African climate advocacy, Prince Emeka Obasi (jnr), has written to President Muhammadu Buhari, demanding more action against climate change. Obasi praised Buhari’s efforts, but encouraged him to step up further by coordinating continental response against the challenge. He said: “Climate change and environmental pollution are matters I care about, because I am aware of the danger they pose, particularly to our continent’s survival. I have resolved to invest my time and contribute my to raise awareness about the dangers of climate change and environmental pollution. “My resolve was further strengthened when, while on a visit to Nigeria in January, I visited some communities bearing the brunt of the environmental crisis. It was an unpleasant experience. In Ogoni, Rivers State, the environment has been degraded by oil spills; farmlands have been destroyed and water bodies polluted. In Port Harcourt, black soot has become a terrifying fact of life. The people complained because their livelihood, which revolves around fishing and farming, has been destroyed. The situation is similar in most parts of the state and Niger Delta.   The leader Nigeria wants, by cleric     Police advisory     Bishops endorse Sanwo-Olu for second term   “I also witnessed the threat that rising sea levels pose to inhabitants of coastal areas of Lagos, and got acquainted with the devastating impact desertification is having in the northern parts of the country. “Across Africa, we are witnessing the most severe effects of climate change. It has led to drought, excess floods and desertification which have exacerbated the security situation on the continent… “Therefore, it is only fair that developed countries fund the transition away from fossil fuels in developing countries… “The situation is dire and, unfortunately, there is not much continental effort to tackle it. Mr. President, you have a responsibility, as leader of the most populous country in Africa, to step up to the challenge, mobilise the continent and lead the campaign against climate change and environmental pollution.”