More winners have emerged in the Quickteller Paypoint Double Up promo. They are Asemota Mercy (Omega Business Ventures), Benedict Agomoh (Gods Power Ventures), and Augustine Odudo (Tina Venture. Others were Asemota Mercy of Omega Business Ventures, and Benedict Agomoh of Gods Power Ventures. They lauded the company for the initiative, adding that the gesture will add value to their operations. Odudo, the overall winner, thanked IFIS for its continued support to agents. He added: “I have been with IFIS for the past four years and we have been enjoying their services. The reward remains a good medium to reach out to us the agents to encourage us to do more transactions, and I am grateful for the recognition.” Divisional Chief Executive Officer, Interswitch Financial Inclusion Services, Titilola Shogaolu charged the agents to do more business  to be eligible to win.   Quickteller announces winners in PaypointDouble Up promo     CBN to simplify e-Naira wallet for users     VFD Group targets commercial banking licence   She said the move was to motivate agents to do more transactions on the company’s network and win prizes. “We have about seven agents who were rewarded, and the same is happening in all of our regions – in Abuja, Port Harcourt, and Ibadan, for example, we will be awarding agents who won in these categories. “These are some of the services that our agents will provide to customers. For bill payment, we have a variety of billers in our network ranging from paid TV companies, state government hospitals, lottery and lotto, to education, such as paying for your child’s education. “We are also working to increase the number of financially included people by opening banks at agent locations. You know, having a bank account is just the beginning,’’ she said. She added that Interswitch IFIS had been  in business for about five years. Other officers of the company at the event were Tomilayo Timi-Adepoju (Business Development 2 & Regional Manager, Lagos & West), Rosemary Aimankhu (Group Head, Business Development 2, South Region), and Uchenna Owunna (Head, Insights & Growth), who presented the award at the Lagos District.