Only six of 20 presidential aspirants on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) have picked the expression of interest and nomination forms, it was learnt yesterday. Also, no fewer than 63 governorship aspirants have picked nomination forms. The ruling party began the sale of nomination forms to presidential, governorship and federal parliamentary aspirants on Tuesday, April 26. The exercise is expected to end on Friday May 6. The six presidentaial aspirants are National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello, his Ebonyi counterpart, Dave Umahi, former Imo State Governor Rochas Okorocha and Minister of State for Education Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba. The only woman presidential aspirant, Uju Kennedy has also picked her nomination forms after depositing N30 million. Under the APC guidelines, female and Persons with Disability (PWD) aspirants are to purchase the expression of interest forms while nomination forms are free. Youth (25 to 40 years) are to purchase expression of interest forms after paying 50 per cent of the nomination fees.   Obaseki increases minimum wage to N40,000     Oyetola okays 65 years retirement age for workers     Lawan: imbibe lessons of Ramadan   Those who have declared presidential ambition, but are yet to pick the forms include Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Minister of Transportation Rotimi Ameachi, Minister of Labour and Productivity Dr Chris Ngige,  Ibrahim Daudu and Jack Rich Tein. Aspirants who are yet to make public their declaration include; Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi, Comrade Adams Oshiomole, former Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun, former Senate President Ken Nnamani, Minister of Science and Technology Ogbonaya Onu, Minister of State for Petroleum Chief Timipre Sylva, Osifo Stanley and Adamu Garba. Eight governors seeking a second term have secured their nomination forms by proxies. They include: Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, , Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun, Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni, Zamfara State Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara and his Nasarawa State counterpart, Abdullahi Sule. Others are Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, Gombe State Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya and Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno state. Some state governors who will be term-limited in 2023 and cannot seek re-election have their deputies eyeing taking over from them. They include Niger State Deputy Governor Mohammad Ahmed Ketso is itching to succeed his boss, Abubakar Sani. The National Organising Secretary, Sulaiman Muhammad Argungu, who confirmed the figures expressed satisfaction with the conduct of the exercise. He assured all aspirants of Senator Abdullahi Adami-led National Working Committee (NWC)’s resolve to provide a level playing ground.