Nobel laureate Prof Wole Soyinka has called for the sack of the Imam of the Abuja National Mosque, Professor Ibrahim Maqari, for justifying the killing of Deborah Samuel by Islamic fanatics Soyinka accused the Islamic cleric of inciting his followers to take laws into their hands in the name of religion He spoke in Abuja during the one-year remembrance of the late former Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, organised by his Foundation established by his widow, Mrs Fati Attahiru. The renowned author lamented the rising cases of lynching of people all in the name of religion, calling for the end of such act in the country. According to him: “In the name of all while I’ve given that all for all, I demand that Professor Ibrahim Maqari shall be removed from office. It is no longer sufficient for all to declaim that Islam is this and that assure the Sharia is Dawson does ” The Prophet Muhammad said this or that good example, admit this or that humanistic pronouncement? We’ve gone beyond theocratic rhetoric that merely pays lip service to civilize conduct that all artistic denunciations be backed by affirmative action. We have already, continue to pay too high price for the culture of appeasement and impunity. ” Let it end now in the name of all those who have served this nation and given their lives for this nation. But the new generation should also be programmed to aspire to brutish existence below the lowest common denominator of what constitutes human. “Professor Maqari however, insists, with a handful of others including vocal serving policemen quite recently, there is no remorse involved in the torture and lynching of a young student on this earth, which we all share to anyone who cares to listen.   Osun 2022: I’m not ‘fire for fire’ –…     Everything will work in Nigeria with Amaechi – Gov…     ‘No plans to foist Adeola as Ogun West APC senatorial…   “Maqari has implicitly directed his followers to take the law into their own hands in the name of religion, and innovation, besides beset on all sides by wars, of ultra nationalism, or religious fanaticism. That is the message of a supposedly holy man to youth, to us His message to a nation embroiled in his madness of multiple incidences. ”We have already continued to pay too high price for the culture of appeasement and impunity. Let it end now in the name of all those who have served this nation and given their lives for this nation. ”But the new generation should also be programmed to aspire to brutish existence below the lowest common denominator of what constitutes human. Surely, that is where any self respecting nation to draw is defining unbridgeable line”, Aisha El-Rufai, wife of Kaduna State Governor, said Islam condemned the killings in the name of Allah. She dismissed a report that those killing people all in the name of ‘blasphemy’ were doing so because of Islam. She said, ”Permit me to say that these people are people we should talk about just like another person who robs and kills the other person, just like a pervert Muslim who rapes a three-month-old baby just like a crazy christian who rapes a six years old girl. ”These people are not doing this with the backing of any religion. Whatever reason they might give their choice is to use religion, they are not for Prophet Mohammed. ”Islam does not preach what they do and the prophet if alive would not have allowed such a madness done to anyone. I feel it is necessary to defend him and the religion which this crazy people smear with their crazy actions.”