Calls for the extension of the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari in office, shift of the 2023 elections and the establishment of an Interim National Government (ING) were yesterday rejected by the Presidency. The calls were made by two senior advocates – Aare Afe Babalola and Robert Clarke. Clarke said yesterday that the Constitution allows President Muhammadu Buhari to extend his stay in office beyond May 29, next year for the restoration of peace and security. Chief Afe Babalola’s recent call for an ING and the postponement of the forthcoming elections to pave the way for the enactment of a new Constitution sparked criticisms from several quarters. In a statement last night by Mallam Garba Shehu, the Presidency said it does not need to extend its stay in office by six months to establish peace and security. Shehu, who is Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity also rejected the legal luminary’s call to hand over to an interim government. He said the government would be violating the rights of Nigerians to choose those whom they want to lead them through a democratic process. According to the statement, the administration is succeeding at stabilising the nation’s security and hopes to complete the process before it serves out its tenure on May 29, 2023. Responding to the call on the President to extend his stay in office by six months, the statement said: “Chief Robert Clarke, a very well-respected elder may be sincere in his wish for the President to extend his term by six months. We wish to categorically restate that the President will step down on May 29th, 2023, after serving two terms – as per the constitution.   Fed Govt gets COEASU’s 21-day ultimatum     Why we adopted eNaira, by Emefiele     Aviation fuel not selling at N700 per litre, says MOMAN   “Having been the first recipient of a democratic transfer of power from an incumbent administration to an opposition candidate in Nigerian history, the President is committed to extending and entrenching democratic values across the country. “He shall, in turn, hand the privilege of serving the people of Nigeria to whomever they choose through free, fair and credible elections. “However, Chief Clarke is right to say that without security, Nigeria would not likely realise its true potential as a peaceful and prosperous nation. That is why it has been at the core of this administration. The results are there for all to see. “Boko Haram has been forced back from controlling whole swathes of this country. Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) are now returning to rebuild their communities. “These achievements have been accomplished through the bravery and determination of the Nigerian armed forces and the fortitude of the people of our nation. “New challenges have arisen and tackled in turn – whether it’s the National Livestock Transformation Plan (NLTP) to alleviate herder-farmer clashes, the elimination of the leadership of ISWAP (Islamic State of West African Province), or new efforts to combat banditry. “Till the last day of the administration, the security of the citizens shall remain the administration’s paramount concern. We shall finish the job. Yet, in any case, respect for the constitution and Nigerians’ democratic rights remain the best path to securing and then maintaining peace.” On the call for an interim government, the statement reads: “Yet, there are others such as Chief Afe Babalola, that believe elections should be suspended, with the current elected government replaced by an interim unelected administration. “This, he claims, is necessary to create a new constitution for the people, made possible, paradoxically, by ignoring their democratic rights. Down that path lies crisis and instability. “Instead, this administration proposes something entirely simpler: honouring the constitution and people’s right to decide.”