A socio-political interest group, the Voice of South South (VOSS), on Sunday joined the call for former President Goodluck Jonathan to contest the presidential poll in 2023. The group said its call is premised on Jonathan’s competence to tackle the nation’s current socio-political and economic challenges that have given rise to poverty, conflicts, violence, corruption, distrust, tribal sentiments amongst others. They made the call in a communique read by its Chairman, James Boss-Anyama, in Yenagoa, Bayelsa capital, after a meeting by members drawn from the Niger Delta region. They said that judging by the array of politicians jostling for the nation’s number one position, Jonathan stands out as a man with an honest and lasting solution to the nation’s economic and political woes. VOSS noted that at this critical time of the nation, a four-year term for president Jonathan would benefit the whole Nigeria. “Nigeria at this point in time needs a short time redemption-focused mission with a four-year purposive and pragmatic national rebirth agenda geared towards addressing the lingering challenges.   NDLEA intercepts drugs in 3 states     List of aspirants who have picked APC presidential forms     2023: INEC chairman denies presidential ambition   “Giving former President Jonathan the singular privilege of being the ruling party’s consensus candidate for the 2023 presidential election is in line with the yearnings of the generality of Nigerians,” it said. The group described Jonathan as a detribalised, unassuming, humble, and a lover of Nigerians. “A Goodluck Jonathan presidency will not only transform Nigeria but will align with best governance as practiced across the nations of the world. “It is not a strange idea in that many world powers such as the USA had within their political history, brought back former leaders and are still doing so as in the case of Israel. “For us, it will be significant and will bring international recognition and respect to our nation only comparable to the likes of South Africa’s four-year development and national advancement under the leadership of Nelson Mandela,” VOSS said. The group admitted its awareness of the yearnings of a particular region of the country for presidency on the grounds of equity and fairness. It, however, submitted that fielding a tested hand to take the country out of the woods should be over and above the principle of equity and fairness. (NAN)