Escalating terroristic attacks and killings in Nigeria’s Southeast geo-political zone continue to attract attention. The zone, which comprises five states, Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu, and Imo, is increasingly becoming another hell. The situation demands urgent government intervention. Two recent cases underline the need for improved security in the zone. In Anambra State, the tragic murder and decapitation of Okechukwu Okoye, the lawmaker representing Aguata 2 Constituency in the House of Assembly, introduced a chilling dimension. He represented Governor Charles Soludo’s community in the state legislature. The legislator’s murder amounts to a direct assault on the authorities. The government must deal with the challenge, and should not give the impression of being powerless. He was abducted by mysterious gunmen on May 15.  His head and headless body were found in separate places in the state about six days later. It is suspected that his aide, Cyril Chiegboka, who was abducted with him, may have been killed too. A viral video showing Okoye’s head, which was said to have been dumped at a park, also showed two warning notes believed to have been written by his killers. “We give the politicians 48 hours to withdraw all the soldiers in Biafra land or face our wrath or the consequences,” one of the notes said. The second one said: “We will attack you one by one because soldiers and police (officers) are no longer our problem.” It is difficult to avoid the inference that the murder was politically motivated. The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) seems circumstantially implicated in this incident. The proscribed separatist group is fighting for an independent “Biafra land” made up of the five Southeast states and parts of the South-south region of the country. Insecurity has worsened in that section of the country, since last year, following the arrest and detention of IPOB’s leader, Nnamdi Kanu, who is facing trial for alleged treason and terrorism. Ironically, Okoye was abducted on the same day Governor Soludo visited Kanu in detention as part of his moves to restore peace and security in the Southeast. IPOB condemned “the abominable beheading,” saying its investigation showed that the deed was done by “fifth columnists.” This does not exculpate the group, which continues to employ terroristic methods to fight its unlawful cause. Although the group rejects its proscription by the Federal Government and its listing as a terrorist organisation, it ironically continues to demonstrate, through its activities, that it deserves such treatment. Yet again, it had ordered a sit-at-home in the Southeast on May 18 and 22, the dates Kanu was scheduled to appear in court. IPOB has no business issuing sit-at-home orders. The orders, issued without regard for constituted authority, sadly suggest state incapacity.   Flight to nowhere     New anti-terrorism law     Deborah Samuel   The enforcement of the order usually causes a standstill in many parts of the Southeast as people sit at home largely out of fear of the enforcers. This is unacceptable. Then, not all the enforcers operate under the group. IPOB disowned the actions of some supposed enforcers in the past.   People who claimed to be IPOB members controversially enforced sit-at-home orders in the past. Indeed, there could be internal rebels rebelling against the rebellious group, separatists that are not on the same page with the group’s leadership. The group may well have created a monster it can no longer tame. This is the tragic truth. So IPOB, one way or another, is implicated in the insecurity in the Southeast. Two days after Okoye and his aide were abducted, mysterious gunmen again struck in Ebonyi State. The chairman of Ikwo Local Government Area of the state, Steve Orogwu, lamented: “They attacked my family compound at Ikwo at night and killed my elder brother, two of his sons and a security guard.” The killers also burnt a house in the compound. The council boss, possibly the real target of the perpetrators, was not at home when the incident happened.  His political position may have been the reason for the attack. Perhaps targeting political figures is the new approach to separatist activism in the zone, whether or not it is done under IPOB’s banner. It is also possible that political saboteurs, who are not necessarily secessionists, are involved. The objective may be to make the affected states ungovernable. The authorities must not allow this to happen. It is striking that Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, observed that “the Southeast was adjudged the most peaceful before the attack on the Correctional Centre, Owerri, Imo State and the release of 1,844 prison inmates by unknown gunmen on April 5, 2021.” Since then, the group said in a statement entitled ‘Satan on the prowl in Igbo land,’ the Igbo-dominated zone “has been in a macabre dalliance with siege, atrocities, abominations, arson, all forms of violence and to the worst of the extremes – killing of human beings.” The greatest puzzle in all this is that local non-state actors seem to have overwhelmed the official security system. This is inexcusable. Importantly, there is a need for collaboration between law enforcement and stakeholders in the zone, including traditional rulers, community leaders, vigilantes and youths, to halt this drift towards anarchy.