Actress Nkechi Blessing’s confession has sparked conversations on why some women do not like wearing pants. The Nation reports Nkechi hit back at her ex-lover Opeyemi Falegan, for claiming she is unhygienic. Falegan had claimed he left the relationship because of her personal hygiene. The politician alleged that the film star could go three days without washing her undies. But reacting in a series of now-deleted posts, Blessing slammed her ex-lover over the claim. The actress said she has not worn a pant since she was 18 and accused the politician of chasing clout. According to a short survey carried out by The Nation, the response(s) from some women shows that deciding to stop wearing pants or underwear may seem like an odd choice. Some women told The Nation that choosing to forgo underwear may be for comfort, health or appearance.   Igbo can’t be trusted with presidency – Northern…     2023: Emefiele meets Buhari, says there will be news     Mob kills female student over alleged blasphemy in Sokoto…   While wearing underwear has its benefits, not wearing may actually do some good. But the decision to wear underwear or not ultimately comes down to personal preference. 1. Helping body breathe better: For some women, not wearing underwear or pants at night, helps the body to breathe better. This nightly ritual could be especially helpful for women who are susceptible to infections. 2. Reduces risk of infection: For some women, infections can sometimes get really bad and painful, and practically no one wants that. Some underwear, especially the synthetic ones, prevent the air from flowing in, trapping excess moisture and microbes that further act as a breeding ground for infections or yeast infections. 3. Promotes comfort: While one might think ditching an underwear will make it uncomfortable for one, the case is exactly the opposite. A few days down the line, one would feel more comfortable and relaxed. And since there’s no moisture trapped, it also keeps the odour away, making you even more comfortable. 4. There’s lesser bacteria migration: One’s choice of an underwear style and fabric can increase the chances of bacteria contamination from the body to sensitive areas. As it is known, ureter infection is most common among women, due to bacterial growth in the genital organs. So, ditching those panties could do a whole lot good for a woman. All of these outlined above are few reasons observed, the reasons are inexhaustible and varies across different women.