Nasarawa State Governor, Engr Abdullahi Sule has felicitated with all Muslim faithful in the state, Nigeria and across the globe on the occasion of this year’s Eid-el-fitri. Governor Sule in a statement he personally signed enjoined all Muslims to remain steadfast in applying the virtues of Ramadan by adhering to sustained supplication, hospitality and good neighbourliness. He urged the people to sustain the spirit of sharing as cultivated during the holy month. “As we celebrate this Sallah, I beseech you all to re-affirm your obedience to Allah’s injunctions as contained in the Holy Qur’an and follow the teachings of Prophet Muhammad “It is also an obligation on us to pray for our leaders at all levels to govern with the fear of God and the virtues of justice, humility and service for the good of humanity. “Let me also use this special occasion to call on my dear people of Nasarawa State to continue to accommodate each other’s beliefs and values in order to sustain peace, harmony, socio-cultural and economic prosperity.”   Jigawa group donates N10m to purchase nomination form for…     Malami restates commitment to contest guber election     Middle Belt Youths urge Adamu to consult Buhari before…   In the same vein, the Jama’atu Nasri Islam (JNI) under the leadership of the Sultan of Sokoto,  Alhaji Muhammad Abubakar, has congratulated Nigerian Muslims for observing the Ramadan fasting which is gradually coming to an end. A statement issued by the Director-General of JNI, Dr Khalid Aliyu, on Saturday in Kaduna, stated that the Ramadan fasting would end either on May 1 or May 2 and would be followed by Eid-el-Fitri festivities. Aliyu said JNI was grateful to the Almighty God for sparing the lives of Muslim faithful who took part in the fasting, adding that “lessons have been learnt. The statement also said, “Muslims are enjoined to sustain the virtuous acts they had acquired and to remain self-disciplined, dedicated and ever God-fearing in all their endeavours.” Similarly, the Nigeria Supreme Council of Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) has congratulated Muslims on the completion of this year’s Ramadan fasting and Eid-El-Fitri. In a statement by its Director of Administration, Zubairu Usman-Ugwu, the supreme Muslim body urged its followers to practice the lesson of the celebration, which is giving out to the less privileged. The NSCIA called on Muslims to look out for the crescent of Shawwal 1443 AH immediately after sunset on April 30, which is equivalent to 29th day of Ramadan.