ANNONYMOUS:  Sometime last year l applied for payment of additional lumsum of 2.5 per cent, 7.5 per cent and 10 per cent increase by the President to federal pensioners. Surprisingly, nothing has been done to that effect. My PFA, Premium Pension. They said we should sign an empty template which they have not reflected. What is the importance of signing templates? I am a retired police officer. Is it a crime to be a police officer in this country? We suffered for this country. Premium Pension should pay our arrears of 2.5 per cent and others. PENCOM: You are requested to forward your RSA PIN, name as well as other details to enable the commission investigates further. Thank you. TAYO: Good day, my name is Tayo. My late mother has two Retirement Savings Accounts (RSA) and PIN numbers with two pension managers with funds in each account. How do I go about it? PENCOM: You are requested to write a letter of complaint to the National Pension Commission, stating the issue as well as the two RSA PINs, name of PFAs and attaching the letters of introduction to your late mum by the PFAs. The letter should be addressed as follows: The Director-General, National Pension Commission, Plot 174, Adetokunbo Ademola Crescent, Wuse, Abuja. The subject of the letter should be multiple RSA PINs. Thank you. EKPE: My name is Ekpe. I retired from the Nigeria Police Force in 2015. My complaint goes thus: On August 2021, I received a message from NPF Pensions that my 2.5 per cent shortfall on pensions approved to Federal retirees by Mr. President was credited to my RSA account. I moved to my PFA, Premium Pension to confirm and they said nothing like that is seen in their system. They advised me to apply to NPF Pensions where I got the information for transferring the said money to my PFA. This was done last October 20, and I copied Premium Pensions and PenCom. To my dismay, I came to discover that the money was already received by them far back last July. Up till this moment, I have not heard from them concerning payment even though template was issued by PENCOM. Premium Pensions bluntly refused to pay us. The most annoying thing is the immediate deduction of their admin fee on receipt of this money into their system while they deny us payment. They forget that this fee is deducted monthly when pensions is paid. Kindly use your good offices to instruct Premium Pensions to pay us the entitlement no matter how small. Thank you. PENCOM: You are requested to forward your Retirement Savings Account (RSA) PIN; name and other details to enable us investigate further. Thank you. OTI: My name is Oti, a former staff member of Skye Bank Plc. My complaint is against my PFA. I left the service of the bank since December 2009. and  I applied for my accrued benefit of 25 per cent. But up till now, no response from them. My letter of non-indebtedness was sent to them from my former employer since January 19, 2022. I am based in Calabar. The Calabar office manager refused to pick my calls or talk to me. I have health challenges which I need the money to use for surgery. Kindly help tell them to pay my 25 per cent. PENCOM: Investigations have shown that the PFA has paid some money into your bank account on March 21, 2022. Please liaise with IEI Anchor Pension Managers Limited for further details. Thank you.   63,728 RSA holders dump PFAs     Universal Insurance set for N10b recapitalisation     PHCN pensioners on special salary structure, says PTAD   ADEBUKOLA: I am Mrs. Babalola. My husband, Gholahan, passed away in 2018 and PenCom has refused to pay his pension. I was told his accrued right has been released but nothing has been paid yet. He worked with the National Commission for Refugees and Internally Misplaced Person in Abuja. His PFA is First Guarantee Pension Limited. Kindly help. PENCOM: Please be informed that your late husband’s benefits have been paid. Kindly liaise with his Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) for more information. Thank you. FRIDAY: Good day, my name is Friday. I applied for my 25 per cent arrears last month from my PFA, Premium Pension. I am yet to be paid. Kindly help. PENCOM: Please Be advised that the Commission is processing your benefits and your Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) will notify you once it has been concluded. Thank You. OGBAJE: My name is Ogbaje, an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP). I retired in 2019 but my resettlement allowance has not been paid. Can you help trace it for me and tell its position? PENCOM: Investigations have shown that your retirement benefits have been paid since October 2020. kindly visit your Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) for more details. Thank you. ADETUNJI: Good day, I  am Adetunji from Ibadan. My daughter just got a job and she was asked to open a Retirement Savings Account (RSA). Please, how do we go about it? Thank you. PENCOM: Please visit the commission’s website at http://www.pencom.gov.ng for a list of Pension Fund Administrators (PFAS) and their contact details. Please feel free to contact any of them so they can advise you of their nearest branch close to you. They would assist you in the opening of a Retirement Savings Account (RSA) for your daughter. Thank you. ANDERSON: Good day. I am ASP Anderson Anzaku. It is quite some years and have not been receiving my monthly SMS hence I do not know what is in savings account. Please help me. PENCOM: Please visit your Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) so they can update your telephone number as well as your email address for you to receive alerts and statements on a monthly basis. Thank you. JOE: My name is Joe, the next-of-kin to the late Mr. Daniel who worked with the National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC) as deputy director, Warri office. His contract expired in 2013 and he died in 2020. I have submitted all documents to Stanbic IBTC Pension for his RSA contribution and others but I did not hear from them. The last time I was there I was told that NPC has not sent approval. Please, help get urgent response from NPC. Thank you. PENCOM: Please forward to us some information such as the RSA PIN, full name as well as Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) for us to investigate further. Thank you. DANIEL: My name is Daniel and I am a next-of-kin to the late Mrs Grace Ameh. I received payment in my UBA account, which, we believe, was her RSA contribution with Sigma Pensions. We are awaiting  the death/life assurance benefits of Mrs Ameh, who served for over 10 years and died in active service of Federal Polytechnic, Idah in February 2015. PENCOM: Sir, you are advised to contact the late Mrs. Ameh’s employer who should process the proceeds of the Group Life Insurance Policy and ensure payment by the insurance company to her beneficiaries since she died in active service. Thank you.