Pan African Towers (PAT) Limited has listed its maiden bond issuance of N10 billion on the FMDQ Securities Exchange. The PAT Digital Infra Fund SPV Plc’s N10 billion Series 1 Senior Guaranteed Fixed Rate Bond was listed at par at FMDQ Exchange. The bond was issued under the company’s N50 billion bond issuance programme. PAT Digital Infra Fund SPV Plc is a special purpose funding vehicle established by Pan African Towers to raise finance from the debt capital market. Pan African Towers is a telecommunications infrastructure company and wireless service facilitator in Nigeria aimed at catering to the telecommunication needs ranging from broadband, mobile telephony to other local value-added services in Africa. Chairman, Pan African Towers, Mr. Oluwole Adeleke commended InfraCredit for its support in the issuance of its debut bond in the debt capital market.   Dufil Prima Foods eyes N30b short-term capital     Transcorp grows net profit by 147% in Q1     Cedrus Group to bridge SMEs’ gaps with innovative solutions   According to him, InfraCredit’s guarantee was essential to the company’s vision in being the number one wholly indigenous owned digital telecommunications infrastructure and wireless service facilitator in Nigeria. “We have demonstrated capacity to achieve faster growth with solid top and bottom-line performance supported by long-term contracts with leading service providers in mobile telecommunication and internet services in Nigeria. We would also like to thank our transaction parties for working with us in delivering a successful transaction,” Adeleke said. Managing Director, Chapel Hill Denham Advisory Limited, Mrs. Kemi Awodein, who was the sponsor of the bond on FMDQ Exchange, said it was an honour to have been mandated on what she described as milestone transaction. “PAT Digital Infra Fund SPV Plc’s successful Issuance of the N10 billion Series 1 bond is significant for the company’s long-term vision and was well received given the invaluable support provided by the unconditional credit backing from InfraCredit. “We pride ourselves on our ability to consistently deliver innovative products and are excited to have delivered a bond that improves digital infrastructure in Nigeria, enhances job creation, and domestic economic growth, as well as reduces Pan African Tower’s carbon emission,” Awodein said. FMDQ Exchange noted several companies have raised funds through the debt capital market this year as companies seek to raise funds to meet working capital requirements.