Drama, thrills and exhortations from the dais were not in short supply yesterday as ad hoc delegates and officials of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) converged on MKO Abiola Stadium, Abuja to pick the party’s flag bearer in next year’s presidential race. The party first cleared the air on speculation that it might take a cue from the All Progressives Congress (APC) by postponing the primaries. The party hierarchy denied any such plan and proceeded with arrangements for the shadow election. National Publicity Secretary of the party, Debo Ologunagba, said: “Our party remains focused and will not be distracted by the shenanigans and underhand dealings of the rudderless, deceitful and manipulative All Progressives Congress (APC), which is desperate to orchestrate uncertainties, derail the electoral process and subvert the Will of the people in the 2023 general elections. “The PDP 2022 Special National Convention is already on course, our presidential candidates, national delegates, teeming members of our great party and Nigerians from across the country are set for the National Convention, which will at the end, credibly and transparently deliver a Presidential candidate who will be the choice of majority of Nigerians in the 2023 general elections. Opposition party displays Jonathan’s picture in programme brochure The PDP, in a veiled attempt to confirm that former President Goodluck Jonathan remains its member, published a photograph of the ex-president in the convention’s programme brocure. He was not sighted at the convention grounds yesterday. Jonathan has consistently been linked with the APC presidential primaries after a group purchased the party’s N100 million expression of interest/nomination forms for him. There is no proof that he returned the form for screening even though he told some protesters who urged him to join the race to “watch out” for his position for a few weeks. Rivers State delegates to the primaries decided to ignore former Vice President Atiku Abubakar when he waved at them on entering the stands. Atiku was perceived by the Rivers delegates as the main obstacle to the aspiration of the state governor, Nyesom Wike. Chairman of the convention organising committee David Mark told delegates as the event got underway yesterday that next year’s elections are crucial in the battle to save Nigeria from going under. “The 2023 election is not a contest between the PDP and other political parties; it will be a moment of historic decision for all Nigerians to right the wrongs of the misrule by the APC,” he said. He added: “For Nigerians, it is a battle of survival. But thank God they have found solace and faith in the PDP as the vehicle to redeem the situation and give them a chance to live again. “No wonder, our logo, the umbrella, is a veritable shade and shield for Nigerians and Nigeria as an entity.” He was confident that PDP would deliver a credible presidential primary election. As the party’s presidential aspirants took turns to address the delegates shortly before the commencement of voting, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar appealed to them to bear with the party, especially if they felt excluded, angry and frustrated with the processes leading to the convention. “No matter the provocation, sabotage or discrimination, all these are temporary; the most important thing is to unite to make sure our party wins in the forth coming election. “I am distressed to read that a number of our party officials have felt frustrated, excluded in the states. I appeal to those that are angry, frustrated and discriminated (against) to bear with the party. “It is a matter of time. There is no condition that is permanent.”   Crisis hits APC NWC as Vice Chair accuses Adamu of acting…     Comrade Segun Sango (1958-2022)     Free riders in our democratic train   Governor Nyesome Wike pledged to support to the fullest whoever emerged the candidate of the PDP. Wike, who called himself a committed party person, added: “Since 1998, I have been in this party and I am not going anywhere. “Secondly, if I emerge today, for every state that has a problem, we will unite everybody in every state to win the election in 2023. “Leadership is the major problem with Nigeria. The PDP must not make mistakes. We must vote for a courageous leader that can withstand the All Progressives Congress (APC). That leader is me. “I will win APC in order for the power to return to PDP, for the interest of Nigerians.” Former Senate President and two-time Governor of Kwara State, Dr. Bukola Saraki, said he was the only bridge to build and unite the South, North, the old and the young to take the country to greater heights. He said: “The destiny of over 200 million Nigerians is in your hands. We must get it right this evening by the kind of candidates we elect in terms of capacity, knowledge and ability to unite this country and move Nigeria forward. “I know I am a candidate that ticks all those boxes because I have the experience in the private sector and legislative arm of government. “You need a Nigerian that will build the north, and the young and old. Let’s fix Nigeria by going out to vote.” Former Ekiti State Governor Ayodele Fayose said he has what it takes to “defeat Muhammadu Buhari in a landslide.” He said he would have been making a lot of money if he was a prophet  because he had warned that the  APC had “nothing to offer and APC will remain a party that never meant well for our country.” Akwa Ibom State Governor Udom Emmanuel urged the delegates to vote for him, as he was the only one who could revive Nigeria’s economy, provide security and replace gloom with boom across the country. A former Senate President, Anyim Pius Anyim, said: “Nigeria is a country in search of nationhood. The process of that search starts with this event. “If you support me and vote for me, I will lead the search to regain our search to nationhood, unify Nigeria and restore the dignity of our country in the league of nations.” Dozens of observers from Jigawa State were stranded yesterday at the Special Convention after their leader allegedly bolted with their allowances. Malam Idris Krikasanma, one of the observers, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) at the convention ground that their leader abandoned them unexpectedly in Abuja. His words: “We came to Abuja in about seven buses, but our leader left us in Area 1 and we had to trek to the stadium. “As it is now, we are stranded. We have been calling his number but the phone is switched off.” Krikasanma said the observers were trying to reach the leadership of the PDP for help.