Senate President Ahmad Lawan on Monday threw his hat in the ring to contest the 2023 presidency. The National Stability Project led by Chief Sam Nkire, purchased the N100million forms of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and handed them over to Lawan at his guest house in Maitama, Abuja. Lawan, after receiving the forms, said he had consulted widely and promised to play the game by the rules. He said: “I have listened to various calls from all parts of our dear country, our dear nation Nigeria, for me to show interest to run for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “I took my time to pray to almighty God to guide me. I took my time to consult very widely, consult Nigerians from all parts of the country to ensure that I get the understanding of the citizens of this country on whose behalf we will, by the Grace of God, win the election and run the administration. “Nigeria needs to be taken to the next level. We know what we have been able to achieve as an administration and as a political party and we know where we are supposed to take this level to eventually. “I want to commit myself to this call and to this movement of Nigerians from all walks of life, rich, poor, north, south, east, west, male, female, old and young. “This is not my journey. This is our journey. This is our journey because every hand must be on deck for us to achieve exactly what we need to achieve.   UPDATED: Court declines Emefiele’s request to restrain…     Fayemi names Ekiti Civic centre after Awolowo     Wike, Peterside disagree on APC ticket   “I am joining lately. The field is already full of other aspirants. I want, at this point, to assure Nigerians that the APC is a very beautiful bride and that is why we have many aspirants. “I will play the game by the rules. I am not going to circumvent any rule. I’m going to respect my party and listen to the leaders of this party because that is our platform in the first place. “But I will spare no moment going from door to door to ensure that I get the votes when the national convention to elect the presidential candidate of the part will hold. “I place my trust fully, totally and completely on the Almighty God, that God will bless this movement and this journey and I want to appeal to all Nigerians that we are seriously committed to taking Nigeria to the next level from where it will be on the 29th of May 2023 and it will be at a solid point and ground at that time, only to be improved upon and consolidated.” The Chairman, National Stability Project, Chief Sam Nkire before presenting the forms, said Lawan was seen as a stabilising personality that needed to be the next President of Nigeria. Nkire said: “This is a representation of Nigerians being led by me, Chief Sam Nkire. We have politicians here, we have business men here, we have a representation of traditional rulers, professionals who have watched Nigeria and they think we need a stabilizer, a stabilizing personality and they looked round and said you must be the one. “That is why the rich ones among us contributed more than the poor ones. But the widow’s mite of the poor ones is also here. So we have decided to purchase the form. “We didn’t want to come first. We made sure we got the form for you to heed the calls of Nigerians who have seen your service to the motherland, who have seen how you have piloted the affairs, and they know the economic situation we have in terms of security, that you are one of the best that Nigeria has. “Please we are here to handover the nomination forms for the position of President of Nigeria on the platform of the All Progressives Congress.”