Newly licensed reinsurance company, FBS Reinsurance has hit the ground running with a premium income of N7.906 billion or $19million in its first year of operation. The company also made a profit before tax of N505.47 million (or $1.2million). This Chairman, Alhaji Bala Zakariyau, at the company’s first Annual General Meeting (AGM) for its financial year end 2021. Zakariyau said the company has just completed first year of operation with a good performance despite the harsh economic realities caused by the pandemic. The Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Fola Daniel, added that the company closed with assets in excess of N15.805 billion from about N10 billion at commencement. He explained that the company was licensed on November 25, 2020 by the National insurance Commission (NAICOM) and commenced operations on January 1, last year.   Insurance contribution to GDP very low, says Minister     NIMASA invests over N150b to end war risk insurance on…     Police apply for insurance company licence   Daniel, a former Commissioner for Insurance, stated that the company services align with customer needs in the oil and gas space, agriculture life and non-life and retakaful business. He said: “The company is poised through its service offerings to lead growth in the local content development of reinsurance business through treaty and facultative arrangement that will expand the frontiers of the insurance spend retention in Nigeria and lead to reduction in insurance premium exports in the near future. “The cumulative experience of the company’s promoters and its executive management spanned over 100 years. Their expertise and network are expected to leverage the company to a pan Alican reinsurance platform in the next  years.” Speaking on their strategy, Daniel stated that the reinsurance market is a brown field with growth drivers embedded in the market weakness arising from low level of treaty and facultative capacity, sparse reinsurance market capacity low insurance penetration measured as the ratio of gross written premium to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and low insurance density. Key factors affecting the growth level of gross written premium have been identified to include the low level of awareness trust and apathy for insurance products by a large segment of the populace low level of actuarial expertise and poor technology drive. “These factors have left the industry struggling to premium income from the commercial sector insurances. Our company sets to ride on the market opportunities that will deliver superior return and shareholders value. Reinsurance capacity offerings will continue to be environmental sensitive in the oil and gas value chain agriculture and other emerging risks, such as cyber-crime and terrorism.” On operating efficiency, he said the retail insurance sector has remained intensely competitive, resulting in significant downward pricing pressure and high operating cost sequent to dependence on intermediaries like brokers as source of business limited use of direct distribution channel like online or mobile platforms. The consequences have continued to show in the industry wide weighted average combined ratio from about 96 per cent in 2012 108 per cent in 2018 while out-liners posted 161 per cent in some very high challenging cases, according to AM Best Rating report 2019. “The effect of the price pressure on primary insurers impacts negatively on reinsurance premium earnings against liabilities. The above reality has combined to shape drive for optimality in operating efficiency as FBSRe in its deal structure and cost of doing business.”