Heifer International has announced an additional $3.5 million USD in funding for its tractor financing initiative. Its Chief Executive Officer (CEO)/President, Pierre Ferrari said Heifer International’s investments in tractor financing support increased mechanisation of smallholder farmers, promoting increased food security and entrepreneurship across Africa. He said the investment was being deployed through Heifer International’s Tractors 4 Africa project. Ferrari, said this yesterday during Ferrari’s visit to Nigeria where he met with agriculture stakeholders. He said: “The investment comes two weeks after the launch of Hello Tractor’s innovative Pay-As-You-Go (PAYG) Tractor financing for agri-entrepreneurs in Nigeria with $1 million USD from Heifer International, taking the organisation’s investment in catalytic funding for tractor financing in Africa to $4.5 million USD. “Heifer International’s investments in tractor financing support increased mechanisation of smallholder farmers, promoting increased food security and entrepreneurship across Africa. The investment is being deployed through Heifer International’s Tractors 4 Africa project.   Customs Strike Force rakes in N8b in two months     Nigeria, others need $106b finance for agric     VFD Group increases dividend   “Heifer International is announcing an additional $3.5 million USD in funding for its tractor financing initiative in Africa to speed up the pace of agricultural development on the continent. “Increased mechanisation and tractors in particular are vital as smallholder farmers scale up their production and build profitable and sustainable farming businesses. We are, particularly, impressed by Hello Tractor’s Pay-As-You-Go tractor financing model – an innovation that emerged from the AYuTe Africa Challenge, an agritech competition for young entrepreneurs run by Heifer International.’’ “In 2021, Heifer International created the AYuTe Africa Challenge, which awards cash grants annually to the most promising young agritech innovators across Africa. It also supports Heifer International’s goal of helping more than six million African farmers earn a sustainable living income by 2030. The AYuTe Africa Challenge $1 million USD award enabled Hello Tractor to finance 17 tractors for 17 entrepreneurs in three countries Nigeria, Kenya and Uganda. “Heifer International’s additional $3.5 million USD investment announced today under its Tractors 4 Africa (T4A) project will finance an additional 75 tractors across Nigeria, Kenya and Uganda. “The total Heifer International investment of $4.5 million USD will provide affordable access to tractor services to 872,250 smallholder farmers at an affordable rate, boosting farm productivity, employment, food security and farmer livelihoods over the next ten years. The investment will create 6,979 new jobs as booking agents, tractor operators, technicians and tractor owners over 10 years. “Africa has the lowest number of tractors per farmer globally and as a result, yields per hectare are low,” said Ferrari. “Smallholder farmers do not have access to tractors and that’s something we aim to change. We encourage our partners and the donor community to join Heifer International on this journey.”