The 22nd President/Chairman of Council, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN), Ken Opara, has unveiled a two-year agenda to transform the institute and banking. Opara, who was sworn in Lagos, said he would bring his over 30 years’ experience in banking, including credit, treasury, retail, consumer and commercial banking, international operations and corporate banking to lift the banking. Opara, who is also the Executive Director, Lagos and Southwest Directorate, Fidelity Bank Plc, had served as the First Vice President and Chairman, Board of Fellows and Practice Licences, CIBN. Opara paid tributes to the founding fathers of the institute who contributed to its growth and development. He told over 5,000 guests, both physical and virtual across the globe, that “Our strategic focus is crafted into an acronym  “FUTURE”,  which focuses on six key strategic pillars: Financial innovation and transformation, Dealing with industry uncertainties, Trade and Finance collaboration. Others are: Unveiling pathways for membership growth, Re-engineering and Rebranding the industry’s business model around Gen Z and Ethical conduct and governance.   Opportunities in cryptocurrency are limitless, says expert     Money laundering: CBN tightens control on MfBs, others     Sterling Bank, optometrists sign MoU on funding   He noted that with globalisation, the future was defined by technology, innovation, efficiency, functional optimisation and fast changing lifestyle. He stressed that the youthful segment of the society was more characterised by these changes, adding that there was the need to drive initiatives that would attract them. According to Opara, while concerns around safety, control, stability and processes were germane, ignoring the existence of this phenomenon whose time had come would be at the peril of any operator. The CIBN chief, who replaced Bayo Olugbemi, pledged that the institute under his administration would play a pivotal role between the practitioners and the regulators while ensuring adherence to sound corporate governance and ethical behaviour. Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, represented by the Commissioner for Finance, Rabiu Olowo, applauded the contributions of the banking industry, particularly Lagos, through the leadership of CIBN. Olugbemi thanked the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele; Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) Chief Executive Officer, Hassan Bello, Body of Banks’ CEOs and other stakeholders for their support to him during his tenure. He said: “As I pass on the baton to my successor, whom I have known for many years as a seasoned banking professional, who is very passionate about the institute, I am absolutely convinced that he would take the institute to greater heights.’’