Clubs taking part in the 2022 season of the Nationwide League One (NLO) have expressed delight with the doggedness of the NLO Secretariat in handling matters that could have brought the brand to disrepute. Recall in the last few months, the Secretariat of the nation’s third-tier league invoked varying degrees of sanctions on some clubs and forwarded names of match officials and a Training Officer found to have breached the ethics of the game to Nigeria Football Federation Referees Department for investigation. Through its Chief Operating Officer, Olushola Ogunnowo who has been working round the clock to ensure a hitch-free, rolled out sanctions to erring teams for breaches of the NLO Rules and Framework “The NLO is like any league body you find all over the world and it’s saddled with the core values of organizing the league and punishing clubs for going against its rules,” Ogunowo said. “For God’s sake, why would a club go against the rules to perpetrate fraud by tampering with players’ licenses? Some of these clubs’ officials think because there are so many teams in the league and no such way the NLO can suspect any foul play.   175 swimmers rub shoulders at Zenith Bank meet     Injured Abdullah out of WAFU Championship     India 2022: Namibian officials for Ethiopia, Nigeria clash   “That’s a fallacy as the NLO has machinery in place to serve as checks and balances in each zone. Having invoked sanctions on clubs for their wrongdoings, we have been getting commendations from other teams for the prompt decisions of the Secretariat. “The clubs now have a firm belief in the NLO Secretariat that they can instantly judge with the interpretation of the rules. The long-run effect, club owners now feel comfortable as they can get value for investment on teams in the league.” Meanwhile, The South East Director of NLO, Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) Ebere Amaraizu has commended the action and steps taken against those in the habit of bringing football activities to disrepute especially in the areas of officiating and other football misconduct. Amaraizu, who also is the National Coordinator of Police Campaign Against Cultism and Other Vices (POCACOV), expressed excitement with the action and step taken in which nine (9) Center referees and a Training Officer (from Ondo State Referee Council) involved in acts inimical to ethics to the game were reported to the Nigeria Football Federation Referees Department for necessary action.