Minister of State for Petroleum Resources Timipre Sylva and Women Affairs Minister Mrs. Pauline Tallen dropped their aspirations to seek the All Progressives Congress (APC) tickets to contest for president and Senate (Plateau South senatorial zone) respectively. But presidential aspirant Rotimi Amaechi and Katsina State governorship aspirant Abbas Masanawa resigned their positions as Minister of Transportation and Managing Director, Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Company (NSPMC). The Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Niger Delta, Senator Eta Enang also dropped his resignation letter. Lawyer-activist Femi Falana, however, said it was too late for any of the aspirants who purchased forms to backpedal after attending the valedictory session organised by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) and chaired by the President at the weekend. An aide to Amaechi confirmed his resignation last night, a day after he told delegates in Kano State that he was set to quit. The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources was at work yesterday. Sylva was said to have backtracked on his presidential bid after considering the enormous work at hand in his ministry. A ministry official, who preferred anonymity, said Sylva withdrew from the race to support President Muhammadu Buhari in his quest to achieve a robust oil sector. The source said: “He (Sylva) promised to consult the leader of the country and his political leaders the day he was presented with the form. “He believes that concentrating on his work will attract more investments for the oil and gas sector. He has consulted and he believes that the challenges at the ministry and oil and gas sector are enough issues for him to begin to deal with now than going to pursue presidential ambition at the expense of the nation.” Sylva’s Senior Special Assistant on Media Horatious Egua confirmed that the minister was back to work. In statement in Abuja yesterday, Mrs. Tallen said her decision to drop her senatorial ambition in the 2023 election was to enable her focus on the foundation laid towards the advancement and realisation of gender equality in leadership positions in the country. The statement reads: “With profound gratitude and great humility, I have decided to voluntarily step down from the senatorial race sequel to the yearnings of women and other well-meaning Nigerians, who see the need for a strong voice for women at the Senate having consulted widely with my family, well-wishers and supporters conscious of the role I play for Women in Nigeria today. “So, to all Nigerian women and young girls who have raised concerns as to what next, be rest assured that I, Dame Pauline K. Tallen, OFR, KSG have not submitted any resignation letter. “And therefore, it is my decision not to go ahead with this request but carry on as the Minister of Women Affairs,” she said. Enang’s Chief Press Secretary, Edet Ekpenyong made his boss’ resignation letter available to reporters.   Eight killed, 32 vehicles burnt in Southeast’s bloody Monday     ASUU strike: Students protest in Ondo, Oyo, Ogun     INEC gives APC, PDP, others deadlines   In the, letter, Enang thanked the President “for the opportunities to serve which I and my family shall forever treasure”. The letter reads in part: “And the time has come… I intend to contest for the governorship of Akwa Ibom State on the platform of our party, the APC for which I now seek nomination, having purchased and submitted the nomination and expression of interest forms. “I hereby, formally, tender my resignation from office, to pursue governorship electoral cause. In August 2015, upon your inauguration, Your Excellency graciously appointed me as the Senior Special Assistant to The President on National Assembly matters – Senate & Presidential Liaison to the National Assembly. “I served in this capacity managing what turned out to be the toughest Executive – Legislative Liaison assignment in the Nation’s democratic History. “I served beyond your first term into your second term, working with the party leadership to elect the current Senate presiding officers in accordance with the desire of the Party, managing the screening and clearance of your second term ministers among others, which has given your second term administration greater stability and peace with the legislature. “You graciously re-appointed me as Senior Special Assistant to the President on Niger Delta Affairs in August 2019, serving till date”. Also yesterday, the NSPMC managing director told reporters he has complied with presidential directive by resigning his appointment to pursue his governorship ambition. Fielding questions from State House reporters, Masanawa said he had adhered to the president’s directives, saying he submitted his resignation through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). He said: “Absolutely, I have abided completely with the presidential directive. And I’ve resigned my appointment as the managing director, and chief executive of Nigeria Security, Printing and Minting. “I sent in my resignation through the chairman of the board, who also happens to be the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria.” Asked if he has personally informed Buhari of his intentions, he said: “Yes through my immediate boss, who is the governor of the central bank of Nigeria. “The governor of the Central Bank is the chairman of the board of Nigeria security, printing and minting.” It was learnt yesterday that Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje withdrew his senatorial ambition for Senator Barau Jibrin representing the Kano North Senatorial Zone to resolve the heightening crises in the state chapter of the party. The resignation followed series of meetings between Ganduje and Sen Jibrin with other top APC members in Abuja. The governor, who had obtained the form to seek the ticket at the forthcoming party primaries, offered to drop his ambition for peace to reign in the party. Ganduje agreed that some bigwigs in the party, including Jibrin, should be allowed to have their ways back to Senate to save the party. The party’s state Secretary Zakari Sarina confirmed the high level politicking.