in obedience to the Federal Government’s call on organisations to support Small and Medium Scale Enterprises’ (SMEs) to produce more food for the country, the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB) has been implementing some initiatives to increase the involvement of more Nigerians in profitable agro ventures. One of this was through Cassava Adding Value for Africa Phase 2 (C: AVA 2), a donor funded programme, to empower more Nigerians to feed themselves. Vice-Chancellor FUNAAB Prof. Kolawole Salako believes the initiative has helped to increase the number of SMEs producing various food, particularly from cassava. At a forum in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital to showcase CAVA contributions to food security, Salako noted that so much has being achieved in boosting processing capacities. On the contributions of FUNAAB in food production, he said: “We are highly involved in intensive and economic production of some agricultural commodities, particularly cassava. We are also involved in oil palm production and horticultural products. We have the cassava processing industry for garri and fufu.   Accelerator programme     14 nominees for WTO’s awards     NMCO is ‘Best in Digital Innovation’   “We have improved on the scale at which we process cassava. FUNAAB is highly involved, not just in teaching, not just in research, but even in production for food security.” With technology, he said the university has created a place for farmers, food entrepreneurs, researchers and technology professionals to find the resources they need to build, launch and grow agricultural innovations. He said the school established FUNAAB Enterprises has midwifed processing factories in bakery, palm-wine bottling, garri and deodorised fufu flour, palm oil packaging, and cashew. The bakery produces fluffy, tasty and delicious snack – meal, bromate free bread for the consumption of the community. As a result, startups have emerged focused on solutions to meet needs in agriculture. According to Salako, innovations from the university has played an instrumental role in developing new technology that fuels the products and services in the food sector. Salako reiterated that the mission of the university was to work with the government to initiate projects and opportunities for local farmers and business owners. He said institution intends to the technical capacity of the local agribusiness sector, while also providing opportunities for interactions and idea sharing.