Train operations on the Abuja-Kaduna corridor will resume soon, the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) said yesterday. The Corporation also said that passengers would have to provide their National Identification Number (NIN) to buy train tickets on any of its train service network. According to the NRC management, the damaged track on the Abuja-Kaduna corridor had been fixed. The track was destroyed by terrorists with Improvised Explosive Device (IED) during an attack on the Kaduna-bound AK9 speed train on March 28. In a statement on behalf of the NRC Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Fidet Okhiria, the Director of Operations, Niyi Alli, stated that the NIN verification prior to purchasing train tickets would improving passenger profiling and safety on-board.   Vice chancellors plan Turkey trip for wives     Return of The Village Headmaster     Ohanaeze: It’s Igbo president or nothing   He said the major components of the track (concrete sleepers and rails) have been completely laid as the south end of the tracks (which was destroyed by the explosion) has been successfully joined with the north end. The locomotive, (engine) Loco 2502, involved in the accident which was trapped at the Rigasa end due to lack of route access has now crossed to the Idu end and taken to the workshop for proper examination and routine maintenance. He went further to say that the technical team would continue with other track stabilisation works including Ballasting, Temping, Fastening of accessories (clips, bolts and nuts) and welding. The statement reads: “As we have mentioned in our earlier releases, the Abuja – Kaduna Train Service (AKTS) will resume soon with additional security features. “The Corporation is committed to the safety of all our passengers and staff on board the ill-fated Ak9 train service. We will continue to collaborate with security agencies to ensure all persons being held are rescued unhurt and reunited with their families, soonest.” The statement, in compliance with President’s directive, urged all those still looking for their missing loved ones to contact the situation room on the following numbers: Mrs. Lola 08023310145 and Mr. Mahmood 07038356015.