What really happened at Aba Road in Sabon Gari area of Kano State on Tuesday? We ask this question in view of the conflicting reports emanating from an explosion that occurred there. While some account said it was due to gas explosion, another said it was a bomb blast. The explosion occurred around 9.30am on the road near a school, Winners Kids Academy, destroyed a residential building and shattered part of the school. At least nine persons died as a result of the explosion, with several others injured. The account, which attributed the incident to gas explosion has it that it occurred at a welding workshop owned by a 25-year-old man, probably because a welding cylinder, carbide and other welding items were recovered from the scene. The Director-General of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Mustapha Ahmed, confirmed that nine bodies were recovered from the rubble of a storey building thar collapsed after the explosion. He said NEMA had mobilised excavators to facilitate rescue operations at the site adding that the agency would work with other agencies to see to the complete removal of the rubbles to be able to retrieve all the persons trapped there. “Nine dead bodies have been recovered so far from the rubble of a collapsed building, beside a primary school following the explosions from a gas cylinder at Aba Road in Sabon Gari area of Kano’’, he said.   High hypertension cases     Primaries not parodies     Nigeria’s next president deserves pity   But this is different from the accounts of two persons who claimed to have witnessed the incident. One of them, Mansur Babajide, said, “As far as I am concerned, it was not a gas explosion, but a bomb, due to the high-density vibration.” He added that the explosion vibrated the premises of his workshop on Burma Road, a distance of about five kilometres from the scene. Another eyewitness, who resides nearby, Luke Okenwa, corroborated Babajide’s position. He said there was no gas dealer in the area. As a matter of fact, he said it could have been caused by suicide bombers who could have infiltrated the city. While we do not doubt the reason adduced by the security agencies and the state government for the explosion, it is also important that we do not dismiss with a wave of the hand the account of those who said it was the result of a bomb blast. Lest we forget, a time there was when bombs went off regularly in Kano. Given the rate at which terrorists that have held the northern part of the country by the jugular operate, we need to be careful not to be caught off-guard should the criminals stage a comeback. So, there is the need for clarification to enable those concerned situate the incident appropriately, with a view to putting in place appropriate measures to avoid a reoccurrence. Ordinarily, in these days of technology, there should not be any controversy over the cause of an incident which occurred in a limited space like the one in question. Science has the answer; the debris could be of help in determining the cause of the explosion. A thorough investigation is required to provide answer to the question of what led to the explosion. However, whatever the cause, we agree with the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq, that we are losing too many lives to avoidable tragedies like explosions and building collapse. We need to curb the trend. Governments should stop issuing licenses to people dealing in combustible materials to operate near schools or residential areas. Moreover, whether the theory of bomb blast is true or not in this case, eternal vigilance remains the price of liberty. People in Kano and indeed all over the country have to be security conscious and report strange persons or movements in their vicinity while governments on their part should intensify the war on terror as well as address the socio-economic issues that gave birth to it.