Nigeria is again back to the seemingly settled issue of rotating the presidency between the north and south. A number of recent events brought us back to this avoidable trajectory. First was the decision by the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, to throw open the presidential contest to all zones in the country. Though the party re-affirmed its commitment to zoning as contained in its constitution, it rationalized the decision on what it called the exigency of time. This has seen motley of aspirants jostling for the PDP primaries. Some leaders from the north have even gone an inch further to select consensus candidates even as the exercise was marred by intense controversy. But the decision has not gone down well with the south as groups and individuals have continued to insist it is their turn to produce the next president after President Buhari. For now, the race is open to all the 15 PDP presidential aspirants screened and cleared by the party. As if this was not enough to resurrect the rotation argument, the newly elected national chairman of the All Progressives Congress APC, Abdullahi Adamu threw petrol into a raging fire when he declared that the party has not zoned the presidency. Before Adamu’s statement, all was going on well within the party as there seemed an understanding the post had been zoned to the south. The assumption accounted for the emergence of nearly all presidential aspirants of the party from the south. The situation became somewhat confused with Adamu’s statement such that the chairman of the southern governors’ forum and governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu had to call on the party to come clear on zoning as equivocation could throw the country into crisis of unimaginable proportion. Akeredolu insisted it is the turn of the south to produce the president in 2023 in keeping with the spirits of equity, fairness and progress of the country. Within the same week, a pressure group staged protests at the national headquarters of the APC and PDP insisting the two parties should zone their presidential tickets to the south. With these and emerging views from the north objecting to rotation, the zoning controversy is once again before us. Adamu’s statement has seen more northerners joining the fray with more likely to enter the race before the extended closing date for the sale of nomination forms by the party. And unless the APC makes a categorical statement zoning the presidency to the south, theirs promises an open contest as is the case with the PDP. If that happens, then zoning would have been thrown overboard.   Tale of 300 cows, herders     Census in crises     Interrogating Imam Khalid’s sermon   But we have been through this troubled route before and some lessons ought to have been learnt from the altercations of the 2015 elections. It does appear no lesson has been learnt as we have gone back to our old ways. Have we forgotten so soon, events of 2015 and the heated arguments by the northern elite to have power ceded to that part of the country? Then, secretary of the Northern Elders Forum, NEF, Ango Abdullahi, had drawn attention to how rotation was arrived at during the 1987 National Political Reforms Conference as a way of giving a sense of belonging to tendencies that make up the country. Abdullahi had then said, “the north was determined and insisting that the leadership of the country will rotate to it in 2015. If it is on the basis of one man one vote, demography shows that the north can keep power as long as it wants because it will always win elections”. Though the north had genuine grounds for its agitation for power rotation then, not many were comfortable with the claim that it can always win elections because of the touted demographic advantage. As events of that election were to show, the north did not win the contest against Jonathan without clear support and collaboration from the south. Curiously, the same line of warped argument has surfaced as part of the considerations by the PDP for throwing its presidential slot open. The PDP was said to have cited voter turnout in the 2019 elections in which out of the 10 states that ranked highest, nine are from the north as part of the reasons for its decision. This curiously falls in line with the argument canvassed by Ango Abdullahi in 2015. The purport of this is that elections will always go the direction the north wants because of their touted numerical advantage. It seems so on the surface. The truth is that neither the south nor the north can win the presidential election if all southerners vote a southern candidate and vice versa. So the issue of voting advantage should not be taken too far. More fundamentally, arguments like this constitute serious challenge to southern solidarity and consensus building. It is also a serious test for the Lagos declaration during which southern governors affirmed their unflinching support for the president of the country to emerge from the south in 2023. Though southerners across the divide have been most vocal in calling for power rotation, each of the zones seeks to take maximum advantage of such a reality. But that is exactly where the problem lies. Is it possible for the three zones in the south to apply the same reasons of equity and fairness in micro zoning the slot to one of its three constituents? That is the big question; a big test to southern solidarity. And what is the likely outcome of each pursuing their ambitions separately? For now, it does not appear southerners have any answer to this question. Both the parties and contestants are enmeshed in a mind game. It is a game situation involving payoffs. They are concerned with rational calculations on the choices open to each other and their possible payoffs. They are contending with options that will minimize their losses in the event of the worst outcome. That seems the idea behind the PDP decision. The same reason may account for the recent position of the APC. The real issue is not as much with where the office is zoned as with the determination, commitment and capacity of southerners to resist any attempt to thwart the process in the same fashion northerners did in 2015. Can they?