The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, on Friday inaugurated the governing boards of agencies under his supervision. President Muhammadu Buhari in April approved the reconstitution of the governing boards of five agencies under the Ministry of Transportation. The boards of agencies inaugurated are; the Nigerian Institute of Transport Technology (NITT), Maritime Academy of Nigeria, Oron (MAN, ORON), National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) and Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN). Amaechi who was silent about the resignation order by the president however said he wished he would remain in office for one more month. He advised the board members and the management of the various agencies to work and be guided by the law. He said: “The law is the law. I think the board and the management need to learn to work together. I say this because of what happened in CRFFN and NPA. We had problems with these two agencies but the best was the Nigerian Railway Corporation. “The chairman of the board and the MD of NRC were always working together. I didn’t hear one kobo complain from the NRC. It was such a seamless relationship and I was delighted but for NPA, it was an everyday complaint.” Speaking to board members of CRFFN, he said: “I wish I will be here one more month. I would have said we should dissolve the board if you don’t agree to work together.” The minister also sought the inclusion of more women on the board of various agencies.   Goodluck Jonathan… at the crossroads     Triumphs, controversies of Justice Mary Peter-Odili     Takeaways from Buhari’s visit to Abidjan   Highlighting the roles of the board, the Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Dr. Magdalene Ajani said: “ I want to remind us that the role of the board of agencies is a part-time role and so, you do not have offices assigned to you neither do you have vehicles assigned to you. “You are called in for meetings quarterly in line with the extant laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and when meetings are called, facilities will be provided to make you as comfortable as possible for those meeting periods. “It is also important to state that you don’t participate in the day to day running of the agencies but rather wait for board meetings to be called and all the things the agency wants to seek approval for would be brought before you. “It is important that we stay away from the day to day running of the agencies because that is the role of the CEOs and their top management.” The chairman of the board of NITT is Ejike Njeze, with Amuda Seriki, Muhiydeen Sani Awwal, Paul Eluhaiwe, Gbenga Elegbele, and Senator Tutare Abubakar as members. The Director-General/CEO of the institute is Dr. Bayaro S. Farah. The chairman of MAN, ORON is Rear Adm. Jacob Adekunle Ajani, while Abdullah Nurudeen and Larry Odeh are members. The Rector of the academy is Commodore D. E. Effedua. The chairman of NIWA is Binta Masi Garba and the member of the board is Chibuike Ikenga. The Managing Director/CEO is Chief (Dr) George N. Moghalu. For the NPA, the chairman is Chief Akinwunmi Ricketts and members of the board are Senator Ayogu Eze, Ghazali Moh’d, Abdullazeez Nyako, Abdulwahab Adeshina and Mustapha Aminu Dutse. The Executive Director of Finance is Ms. Adenrele Susana Adeshina and the  Managing Director/CEO is Mohammed Bello Koko.