As part of the ongoing consultation of strategic stakeholders in the country, a presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Udom Emmanuel, has visited the Abeokuta home of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, to formally inform him of his ambition. He told the elder statesman that he was ready to rescue and restore Nigeria, having had sufficient private and public sector experience, with remarkable results to show for it. Emmanuel said the major issues plaguing Nigeria could be solved by a focused, sincere and capable leadership and assured Obasanjo that if given the opportunity, he would take practical steps to boost the economy and return the country to its glory days. Responding, Obasanjo appreciated the presidential aspirant for the show of respect in coming to inform him about his aspiration. He said: “Knowing you the way I do and the knowledge you possess, which you have expressed in your brief speech, I have no doubt that if you have the opportunity, you will fix the economy of Nigeria.   Nigeria does not need wealthy consumers as leaders, says…     Jack-Rich joins presidential race     Stop attacking our personnel, LAWMA warns   “Our country is complex, but not a complicated country to govern. It needs the application of honesty, fairness and justice. “I know that you are a man of conscience who fears God and will apply these guiding principles in your leadership. “You have shown what you can do for Nigeria by what you have done in your state. It is, therefore, logical that when the opportunity presents itself, you will bring what you have done in your state to bear on the larger community. “Your presidential bid is a fair and legitimate thing to ask for.” The presidential aspirant was accompanied on the trip by a member of the National Executive Committee of the PDP, Obong Paul Ekpo, two members of the House of Representatives, Pat Ifon and Nsikak Ekong and Ini Ememobong, Akwa Ibom State Commissioner for Information & Strategy.