The Federal Government has called for synergy among stakeholders in the midstream and downstream sector to strengthen local content and boost the country’s domestic refining capacity. Minister of State for Petroleum Resources Chief Timipre Sylva stated this in an address at the opening ceremony of a two-day dialogue on “ Maximising potential in the midstream and downstream oil and gas sector – a local content perspective”, organised by the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), in Lagos yesterday. Sylva said the dialogue “will serve as a platform to sensitise and enlighten stakeholders about the Board’s capacity building intervention initiatives in support of Nigerian Content Development in the Midstream and Downstream sectors”. He noted that the interface would “create a forum for top level dialogue that will articulate an agenda for actualising the full potential and prospects of the massive investments in the midstream and downstream sectors of the oil and gas Industry”, adding that the “mandates of the Ministry of Petroleum Resources under the Next Level Agenda of Mr. President is the “Increase in Domestic Refinery Capacity”. According to him, the government’s effort at boosting domestic refining capacity led to NCDMB’s partnership with local companies such as Waltersmith Refinery, Azikel Refinery, and Atlantic Refinery to be the catalyst for the industrialisation of the oil and gas industry and its linkage sectors.   Fed Govt okays tax reliefs, other incentives for tech…     GDP’s 3.11% Q1 growth driven by trade, telecoms     ‘Fed Govt losing money, capital investment to bad…   He added that NCDMB’s investments in Eraskon Nigeria Limited for a lubricating oils blending Plant, Bunorr Integrated Energy Limited for the production of lube oil and other lubricants in- country, and Duport Midstream Company for the establishment of an energy park, which comprises modular refinery and gas processing facility, have shown a broad spectrum of partnerships in the midstream and downstream value chain. The Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), the Minister noted, has introduced a governance framework for the industry with clear delineation of roles between regulation and profit-centric business units, stressing that the Act contains fiscal incentives to attract investment in gas development and local refining; it also provides exceptional care for host communities and future energy security through dedicated funding renewable energy development and local content. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari for creating the enabling environment in the oil and gas sector for local content to thrive. He pointed out that under the “Decade of Gas Initiative”, gas has been declared a transition fuel towards actualisation of a net- zero carbon emission while government has supported critical projects such as NLNG Train 7, Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) Gas Pipeline, Nigeria/Morocco Gas Pipeline, Trans- Saharan Pipeline, and the National Gas Transportation Network Code. While expressing optimism at the outcome of the dialogue between the various stakeholders at the forum, Sylva said he expected that at the end of the dialogue, there would be broadened knowledge on the Nigerian content opportunities associated with the midstream and downstream sectors. “We must find ways to unlock the natural gas and domestic production potentials of Nigeria and drag millions of our people out of energy poverty,” Sylva said.