A former Minister of State for Defence, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, yesterday said, there is a need to get Nigerian youths retrained and certified for jobs that are available. Obanikoro, who noted that a large contributor to unemployment is also a lack of skills for the jobs available, reiterated the need to revitalise and invest significantly in Nigerian polytechnic to have 3-12 month certification programs that employers can rely on. In a statement signed by his campaign organisation on Friday, Obanikoro added that he is running to represent Lagos West Senatorial District in order to help attract major infrastructural projects where unemployment can be addressed in the short and midterms. He noted that his legislative and administrative experiences would help secure a vantage bargaining chip for Lagos State in the next dispensation where the state is positioned for better economic prosperity and the security of the state takes center stage at the federal level.   Auto Draft     Buhari approves appointment of new Statistician-General of…     Foreign airlines should engage indigenous cabin, technical…   He expressed confidence that he would be able to lobby other legislators to achieve the long-awaited special status for the state, address unemployment, more infrastructures, and make Lagos security focal national importance. The statement reads in parts: “With over 20 years of experience serving at all tiers of government, including the National Assembly as a Senator, I know how things work, I know how to navigate and get things done in Government which Lagos will benefit from day one of my resuming office. “My experience and capacity to get things done undoubtedly make me the most viable candidate, however, my vision and legislative plan for Lagos is one that I am equally proud of and confident Lagosians and the people of Lagos West Senatorial District will appreciate and approve. “With a Lagos 1st Agenda, my plan is to achieve the following: Special Status for Lagos – The Centre of Excellence is too germaine to Nigeria not to be accorded special status requiring special attention and collaboration with the Federal Government.