The campaign train of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant Akwa Ibom State Governor Udom Emmanuel has rolled into Jos, Plateau State capital, where former Governor Jonah Jang urged the party to zone the ticket to the South. He said PDP’s headache would have been substantially reduced, if power shift is endorsed The campaign manager, Senator Gabriel Suswam, introduced Udom to the delegates and described Jang as thd father of PDP in Plateau  and the only person who had been governor in three different states-Gongola, Plateau and Benue. Udom explained why he started his foray into the North from Olateau, explaining that his campaign would flow seamlessly from there to other parts of the North. He said there is a vacuum between the older and present generation, adding that he entered the race to bridge the gap. As he entered the venue of the parley, there was power outage. UDOM said he has the answer with the right policies and right people in place. He emphasized the need to link hindsight with hindsight and then foresight to solve the power problem and other problems militating against the country. Going back memory lane, he recounted how Jos was the place to be but insecurity has changed all of that. He said God is looking for someone to partner with. “I believe someone like me is ready for that partnership” Responding, Jang congratulated UDOM for taking the hold step to come forward. He hinted he too had offered himself for service as president in the past. But the situation has now even got worse. Despite that, he advised that we must uphold democracy. “I am a strong believer in democracy but, unfortunately, the wrong people kept coming into office. “I saw so many things going wrong and believe the problems are not insurmountable. “I cannot see how Buhari can sleep with his eyes closed with the killings around, hijacking trains and nothing being done?   ‘Only loyal, experienced aspirants deserve APC…     Olafeso: ‘Many 2023 presidential aspirants are jesters’     ‘Oyetola has performed excellently’   “The soldiers of our own days would not have tolerated this. “We need to take over the nation first. How do you repair the economy with the nonsense going on? “It is God that anoint presidents. It is not by power or by might,” he said and then pleaded that the PDP Constitution be respected. “Zone to the South. President Buhari is finishing two terms of eight years”, he added. Meanwhile, Udom also said the collapse of infrastructure has negatively impacted on the economy and well-being of the people. He regretted that many of the industries of the past have collapsed or relocated. He promised to revive the economy by creating job opportunities for Nigerians. Reeling out his achievements in Akwa Ibom, he said this is an indication he will perform more at the national level. He listed the foreign exchange use of coconut, which Akwa Ibom is working on to export and earn foreign exchange. “Akwa Ibom is producing and exporting syringes. “Akwa Ibom runs the most efficient airline in Nigeria, which Nigeria as a country has not been able to do. And no nation can develop without a national carrier. “As industries are packing up in other parts of the country, I can list at least 22 industries springing up in Akwa Ibom. The best flour is produced in Akwa Ibom,” he added. Udom lamented that the country is so divided, but describing himself as a bridge builder, he said the new generation of new Nigerians we yearn after will be made possible by him. “We flare gas, yet we have power problems. I have the ideas and will initiate policies that will solve our power problems. “I understand the language of investors. I will attract them to rescue and restore Nigeria. “My coming out is not for self-aggrandizement but to rescue and restore our country to its past glory.”