The Minister of Finance, Budget and Planning, Mrs.  Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed, has described the contribution of insurance to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of 0.88 per cent for last year as very low. She spoke during the inauguration of the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) portal at the weekend in Abuja. She said this meant a low insurance sector development contribution to the economy and an indication that there were opportunities for growth in the market. She congratulated the commission on achieving the feat of leveraging technology and data for the transformation of its processes; drive its regulatory and supervisory functions, increase operational efficiency and improve its corporate outcomes. The minister charged NAICOM and the operators to develop new innovative products based on data and customer preferences and introduction of new channels of distribution beyond the traditional channels to reach new segments of the market. She said: “I understand that the portal will serve as a platform for interconnecting industry stakeholders to support real-time aggregation of data, automate its business processes and provide access to statistical data of the sector. The inauguration of the portal should serve as a springboard for industry wide adoption of technology and innovation for efficient and effective service delivery, ease of transacting business and customer experience and satisfaction. “The industry should provide quick turnaround time on their services, grant access to information when required without any inhibitions and maintain effective real-time communication with its customers. Dwindling government revenue profile demands that the Commission must look into ways of increasing its revenue through the use of technology and the portal in particular. “I urge the Commission to ensure the portal is connected to other government databases like the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) NIN Database, Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) Passport Database, Nigeria Integrated Customs Information system, FRSC’s National Vehicle Identification System, the National Vehicle Registry, State Licensing Databases, among others, to provide value-added services to  insurance industry stakeholders and enhance revenue generation. In addition, the NAICOM portal must also serve as the central database and sole repository of Insurance Data connected to government databases in the country.” She pointed out the poor public perception and lack of trust and confidence in the industry.   NIMASA invests over N150b to end war risk insurance on…     Police apply for insurance company licence     Linkage Assurance generates N4.61b gross premium in Q1   “Meanwhile, you will agree with me that the unsatisfactory response to settlement of claims by underwriters had greatly contributed to the prevailing poor public perception and lack of trust and confidence in the insurance Industry. Indeed, prompt claims payment is the best advertisement for the industry, therefore all genuine claims that have been duly verified and due process followed, should be paid promptly,” she said. She added that there was also the need for cooperation with other agencies of government to enforce compulsory insurances in the country. “Stakeholders in the industry must consciously and intentionally spread the reach of insurance from the major cities and few states to other regions of the country especially the rural areas. Low penetration in the retail end of the market must also be addressed through vigorous drive of inclusive Insurance like micro insurance and takaful. In addition, deliberate attention must be given to the low insurance literacy and education in the country. “I want to encourage the industry to adopt new and disruptive technologies like mobile technology, cloud computing, Artificial intelligence, Blockchain, Data Analytics and Internet of things in driving and supporting its business. On this premise, I commend the Commission for being in the forefront of this and for incepting initiatives in this direction, including Guidelines for Web Aggregators and Regulatory Sandbox, introduction of BIMA Lab Insurtech Accelerator Programme. “However, I believe there is a need for regulatory framework for Insurtech companies to guide and supervise their operation without inhibiting their innovation. The Commission should look into this. I believe with the inauguration of the NAICOM portal, the long overdue digital transformation of the insurance industry has begun with the attendant effect of increased penetration, reduction in the numbers of fake insurances, efficient service delivery and improving public trust in insurance,” she noted. The Commissioner for Insurance, NAICOM, Sunday Thomas, said the portal is one of the initiatives of the commission being pursued to deepen the insurance market and increase the penetration to the level that is consistent with the nation’s economy. He recalled that the commission in July 2009, embarked on a comprehensive computerisation tagged Project e-regulation that was meant to transform its procedures and the conduct of its regulatory responsibilities by providing a robust, world-class ICT Infrastructure to help implement an automated business processes internally and for industry wide supervision via an integrated platform. “Prior to this development, the processing of applications required that applicants physically drop off their applications at the Commission with the attendant challenges of delays in processing times, wasted manpower hours due to back-and-forth in application processing as well as ineffective application tracking system. With the completion of the portal there will be process efficiency and faster processing time as applications and supporting documents are submitted online, applicant’s account is updated with the status of the application as it progresses and there is effective Real-time communication between NAICOM and the applicant “The portal is made up of four systems, which include Policy, Licensing, Complaints Management and Regulatory Returns and Financial Analysis. The project is funded by Africa-Re Foundation would improve efficiency and effectiveness in supervisory and regulatory oversight of the insurance industry. “It is expected that the challenges of poor insurance penetration, public trust and confidence in insurance, and inadequate real-time statistical data of the insurance industry will be resolved through the efficient deployment of the portal. Also, the direct interface with the industry provided by the portal will ensure greater accountability and transparency. The digital platform will provide a single point of contact between NAICOM and the industry’” he added.