Winners continue to emerge in the House of Representatives primary elections conducted by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in various federal constituencies across the country. In Nasarawa state, three incumbent Reps members lost at the polls. Hon. Jonathan Gbefwi, who is seeking a third term ticket to represent Karu/Kokona/Keffi Federal Constituency, lost to Hon. Auta Koro who garnered 156 votes to emerge victorious. In Keana/Awe/Doma federal constituency, incumbent Hon. Hassan Nalaraba secured a return ticket after his main challenger, Hon. Tanko Zubairu, withdraw from the race. In Nasarawa/Toto federal constituency, the incumbent member, Hon Abdulminu Ari, lost his return ticket, while Hon Abubakar Sarki Dahiru who is representing Lafia/Obi federal constituency for the second term, lost his third term bid to a nephew of the former Governor of Nasarawa State, Senator Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, Hon. Mohammed Al-Makura.   Oshiomhole, Bagudu, Adeola, Lalong, Umahi, others win APC…     PDP convention titbits     Crisis hits APC NWC as Vice Chair accuses Adamu of acting…   In Delta state, Hon. Francis Ejiroghene Waive emerged candidates of the APC for Ughelli North/South/Udu federal constituency during the party primary election held in Ovwian Udulocal government area of the state. Those who contested the Ughelli North/South/Udu federal Constituency are Hon. Francis Waive, Mrs. Obukomena-Ibru Mukoro and Mr. Ogheneavona. The APC in Taraba state adopted the use of direct primary to produce its candidate for Jalingo/Yorro/Zing, federal constituency. The current member representing the constituency, Maigari Bello Kasimu, secured a return ticket for the 2023 elections. He got 12,032 votes out of 22,369 valid votes to defeat three others, in a keenly contested direct primary election. Mahmoud Abdulmumini got 4,591 votes to come second Nuruddeen A.Ibrahim got 3,262 while Aminu Ibrahim Malle got 2,484 votes. The result was announced by the chairman, Primary Election Committee, Caleb Bawi. Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Appropriations, Rep. Muktar Aliyu Betara, has been elected unopposed as the candidate of the APC, for Biu, Bayo, Kwaya/Kusar and Shani Federal Constituency of Borno State. Rep Muktar Betara Aliyu pulled 194 vote out of the 204 accredited delegates across the four local government areas with supporters chanting “Say Betara”, “Say Betara.”