The governorship primary elections of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for the 2023 governorship election is being held across states. In Bauchi state, former Chief of Air Staff, retired Air Marshal, Saddique Abubakar, emerged the governorship candidate of the party. Abubakar, who is Nigerian Ambassador to Benin Republic, polled 370 votes to defeat six other aspirants in contest. Announcing the result on Friday, the Returning Officer and Chairman, APC Election Committee, Alhaji Ali Birninkudu, declared Abubakar winner of the election. The returning officer said that Sen. Haliru Jika (Bauchi-Central), the runner up in the election polled 278 and Alhaji Nura Manu-Soro came third with 269 votes. He said that Musa Babayo polled 70 votes, Faruq Mustapha scored 26 votes, Mahmood Maijama 8 votes and Prof. Ali Pate got 0 votes, respectively. In his acceptance speech, Abubakar thanked Allah for his victory, commended delegates and the leadership of the party for the confidence reposed in him. He promised to work together with other aspirants for the success of the party in the 2023 general election, adding that “your support is not taken for granted.” In an unexpected outcome, Sen. Aishatu Ahmad, popularly known as Binani, picked the governorship ticket in Adamawa with 430 votes to emerge as the first female governorship aspirant in the 2023 race. Gambo Lawal, the Chairman, Electoral Committee, disclosed this at the end of the primary election on Friday in Yola. She defeated former governor, Muhammad Bindow, Mallam Nuhu Ribadu and two others to clinch the ticket. In her acceptance speech, Binani who is currently representing Adamawa central senatorial district in the National Assembly thanked the delegates for the confidence reposed in her. She called on other aspirants to work together for the victory of the party in 2023 general elections in the state and federal level. In Sokoto state, former Deputy Governor of the state, Ahmad Aliyu, won the APC governorship ticket. He polled 1080 votes to defeat seven other candidates in the primary conducted at the party secretariat, Sokoto. Senator Abdullahi Ibrahim Gobir who came a distant second, scored 36 votes. Others are Farouk Yabo, 27 votes; former Minister of Transportation during President Goodluck Jonathan regime, Alhaji Yusuf Suleiman, scored 16 votes; Abubakar Gumbi 1 vote; and Abubakar Gada zero vote. Earlier, the member representing Illela/Gwadabawa Federal constituency, Dr Balarabe Salame, and Umar Garba Takonyo boycotted the exercise. Aliyu, while accepting his nomination, called on his co-contestants to see the results as the will of God, saying there is need to come together in order to win in the general election. He applauded the delegates who have confidence in him, reiterating that if given the mandate in 2023, he will not betray the confidence reposed in him. On his part, Sen Abdullahi Ibrahim Gobir congratulated Ahmad Aliyu, saying power come from God. The incumbent Senator representing Kaduna Central, Uba Sani, has emerged as the APC governorship flag bearer in Kaduna State. Chairman of Kaduna APC governorship primary election, Anachuna Izu, while announcing the result on Thursday,  said Senator Sani polled 1,149 votes to clinch the ticket, while the runner up, Bashir Abubakar, scored 37 votes. Sani Shaaban secured 10 votes to finish third. Senator Sani in his acceptance speech described his emergence as victory for all APC members and the entire people of Kaduna State. He promised to build on the legacies of Governor Nasir El-Rufai if he finally gets elected as the Governor of the state in 2023. He appealed to other aspirants to work with him in his effort to take Kaduna State to greater heights. “This is the beginning of the journey of consolidation and continuity. We shall build on the wonderful legacies of our dear leader, the irrepressible Governor Nasir El-Rufai,” he said. But an aspirant in the race, Alhaji Sani Mohammed Sha’aban, has rejected the APC gubernatorial primary election result, alleging that the election was fraught with irregularities. Sha’aban told correspondents in Kaduna Thursday night that the election was a ‘charade’, as most of the delegates from the 23 local governments were locked out of the Umaru Musa Yar’Adua Hall voting center in Murtala Square Kaduna, while people were picked from the streets of Kaduna to vote in the primary. The Aspirant claimed that, four or five different delegates’ lists were produced for the election between Wednesday night and Thursday night. He said he has already petitioned INEC and the APC national headquarters about the ‘sham’ in Kaduna and confided in journalists that he is bidding his time to take his decision, adding that soon he would come out with his decision. “From Wednesday to Thursday, there were five different delegates’ lists. I won’t be a party to illegality we don’t know who are going to chose us. We are yet to hear from INEC. I won’t accept any result that is produced through illegality,’ he said. A member of House of Representatives, representing Chanchaga Federal Constituency in Niger state, won the APC governorship primary election held on Friday. He polled 540 votes to defeat other nine aspirants. Announcing the result, Alhaji Nasiru Ibrahim, the Chairman, Niger Governorship Primaries Committee 2022, said that the total number of votes cast was 1,049 while 11 votes were invalid. He said that Umar Bago polled 540 votes to defeat Mohammed Malagi, who scored 386 votes followed by Sani Ndanusa who scored 84 votes. In his acceptance speech, Bago described his victory “as a new beginning not just for him but for the people of the state. “I am calling on people to behave in orderly manner and be law abiding, we can’t in spirit of jubilation destroy lives and property,” he promised. A former boss of INEC in Benue state, Dr. Nentawe Yilwada, has emerged winner of the Plateau state APC governorship ticket amidst protests by other aspirants. He scored 803 votes to defeat eight other aspirants. Chairman of the election committee, Hon. Habu Ajiya, said Nentawe scored the highest votes and as such, won the election. Four aspirants walked out of the election in protest of alleged imposition by Governor Simon Lalong. They are the state deputy governor, Prof. Sunny Tyoden, Nde Victor Dimka, Dr. Sarpiya Danyaro and Dr. Patrick Sunday Dakum. In Katsina state, Dr. Dikko Radda, the immediate past Director General of Small and Medium Enterprises Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), emerged as the APC gubernatorial candidate. Radda defeated seven other aspirants at the party’s primary election in Katsina, to clinch the ticket. The chairman of the electoral committee, Kaka Shehu, while announcing the results on Friday, said Radda scored 506 votes to emerge winner. According to Shehu, the immediate past Secretary to the Katsina State Government, Dr. Mustapha Inuwa, scored 442 votes while the ex-Managing Director, Nigeria Printing and Minting Company, Alhaji Abbas Masanawa, got 436 votes. Radda commended the electoral officials for conducting a free, fair and transparent primary election. He also commended Gov. Aminu Masari for not interfering with the process. Radda called on the other aspirants to join in building the party to ensure its success in the general elections.   Supreme Court affirms N6bn damages against ex-NIMASA boss…     Scandal rocks quarantine centre as stranded deportees cough…     How marabout duped two sisters of N5.4m to exorcise marine…   Kano state continued in the tradition of the deputy governor succeeding his boss with the emergence of Nasiru Gawuna, the current deputy governor, as APC governorship candidate. Gawuna polled 2,289 votes to defeat his only opponent, Sha’aban Sharada, a member representing Kano Municipal Federal Constituency, who scored 30 votes. The Returning Officer and Chairman, APC Election Committee, Alhaji Tijjani Kaura, declared Gawuna winner at the end of the exercise held on Thursday night at the Indoor Sports Complex, Sani Abacha Stadium, Kano. He said that 2,339 total votes casted while 2,319 votes were valid. Kaura commended security personnel, journalists, contestants and party executives for the peaceful conduct of the exercise. Dr. Nasir Idris, the National President, Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), emerged as governorship candidate of APC in Kebbi state. Speaking on the development, Governor Atiku Bagudu said “In the last weeks, what we saw was evidence of Abubakar Malami, the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice’s sacrifices. Malami, who was in the ballot and members of the party were waiting to cast their votes for, out of love for the nation, returned to Mr. President, to help him to transform their works till 2023. And that is why he was unable to participate in the primary as much as we want him. “I remember, when we had a stakeholders’ meeting few weeks ago, all stakeholders of the party enthusiastically endorsed Malami. But as believers, power comes from God and God has shown us that it is Him who decides who takes that power. Today, we are happy, our brother, equally, loyal to the party, loyal to the state, the President of NUT and Deputy President of NLC, Dr. Nasir Idris, has been so honoured, by the delegates to be the flagbearer of the APC.” The immediate past Minister of State for Mines, Dr. Uche Sampson Ogah, has emerged as the flag bearer of the APC in Abia state. Recall that a chieftain of the party in the state, High Chief Ikechi Emenike, had on Thursday emerged the governorship candidate of the party with 672 votes in an indirect primary held in Umuahia, the state capital. While addressing journalists on Friday at the party’s secretariat in Umuahia about other parallel congress of the factional party, Dr. Ogah who was the 2019 governorship candidate of the APC, said the mode of conduct as directed by the national body of the APC is direct primary election. In his words: “If the national body says direct Primaries, the direct primaries is to show strength of popularity. What we just had is direct Primaries. I have to follow the rules of the party.” Dr Ogah said. Sen. Bassey Otu, a former lawmaker who represented Cross River South in the National Assembly, has emerged governorship flag bearer of the APC in Cross River state. Reports say Otu emerged winner after scoring 811 votes to defeat his opponents, Sen. John Owan-Enoh who got 84 votes and Mr. Chris Agara, 63 votes. Chairman of the party’s Primary Election Committee, Mr. Mohammed Kolo, said other aspirants had earlier withdrawn from the contest. Chairman of the APC in Cross River, Mr Alphonsus Eba, congratulated Otu on his victory which he described as ‘landslide’. Otu thanked Gov. Ben Ayade of the state for keeping to his words in ensuring that a candidate from the southern part of the state should emerge with a view to returning power to Cross River South. He added that he emerged victorious without sharing a penny to influence any delegate. Otu pledged not to fail the people for the love and trust reposes on him, biting that the first task is to win the general election and keep Cross River State as an APC State. Amid intrigues and powerful play, Akan Udofia has won the governorship primary of the APC in Akwa Ibom state. Udofia, who was declared the party’s guber candidate, early Friday morning, contested for the party’s ticket with 7 others. He polled a total of 1227 votes to beat his closest contender, Senator Ita Enang who scored 34 votes. Professor Chris Ekong followed with 21 votes, Uduak Udoh 7 votes, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe 2 votes, Richard Anana 2 votes, Larry Esin 1 vote and Augustine Utuk 0. There were 19 voided votes. Udofia in his speech dedicated his victory to Akwa Ibom people, promising to bring prosperity to the state if he wins as governor in 2023. “My emergence as the APC gubernatorial flagbearer today is a victory for every Akwa Ibom citizen, who desires development for our dear state and the prosperity of its people. As we progress into the forthcoming gubernatorial elections, I urge you to keep up the good work as we prepare to coast to victory. I hope to deploy my local experience, vast network and global connections, to make this collective dream for a better Akwa Ibom, a reality,” he said. However, the APC governorship primary was not without intense struggle and intrigues between the factions of Senator Godswill Akpabio and Senator John James Akpanudoedehe. The Nation gathered that the two factions had battled for the possession of materials for the primary at the Victor Attah International Airport and there after along Oron road by Udo Udoma avenue. While the Akpanudoedehe’s group wanted to take the materials to Sheer Grace Arena, venue of its prImary, Akpabio’s faction also struggled to take the materials to the state party office at Ekpo Obot Street, Uyo. Our correspondent learnt the operatives of the Department of State Security (DSS) later took custody of the materials with the agreement from both factions that the primary be postponed. A party source from the Akpanudoedehe’s camp, however, informed the Nation that the DSS released the materials to the Akpabio’s camp in the midnight of Thursday and the exercise was later conducted. “I don’t know how they did it but we suspect that the DSS colluded with the Akpabio’s camp and released materials to them against the agreement we had that the primary be postponed to afford us time to settle all issues and contentions”, the source said. But the INEC Resident National Electoral Commissioner in the state, Mr. Mike Igini told journalists that the Independent National Electoral Commission does not recognize the primary conducted by the Akpabio group.  Igini said INEC acknowledges the state leadership of the APC led by Austin Ekanem supported by Senator Akpanudoedehe. Senator Teslim Folarin won the APC governorship ticket in Oyo state as his main challenger, Bayo Adedibu, boycotted the primary election. Folarin was declared winner by the Secretary of the Committee who served as the Returning Officer, Dr Abdullahi Abubarkar Kuso after scoring 954 votes in a contest that ran late into Friday night at the Obafemi Awolowo Stadium formerly Liberty Stadium, Oke Ado, Ibadan. Even before the official commencement of the exercise, one of the aspirants, Chief Niyi Akintola (SAN), has submitted a petition to the party’s governorship appeal committee. The Nation gathered that Akintola filed the petition on Friday, claiming that the primary, which was being held at the Liberty Stadium on Friday, was illegal because he already won in one that was allegedly conducted at Trans Amusement Park, Ibadan on Thursday. Akintola, according to a source, argued that the party scheduled the exercise for Thursday, not Friday, stressing that holding it on any other day was unknown to law. The governorship primary committee had postponed the exercise to Friday following its inability to continue with the shadow election. Some hoodlums had stormed the stadium at about 7pm making it impossible for the exercise to go on. The committee is chaired by Sen. Tokunbo Afikuyomi. Accreditation was about to be concluded as at press time. It is hoped that voting and counting would be concluded by midnight. In the race were Sen. Teslim Folarin, Akeem Alao, Akeem Agbaje and Dr. Azeez Adeduntan. Rev Fr. Hyacinth Alia, the catholic priest who was suspended last week by the Bishop of Catholic Diocese of Gboko, William Avenya, for joining partisan politics in Benue State, has taken an early lead in the APC gubernatorial primary election in the state as at the time of filing this report. Sources claim the aspirant is highly favoured to win the gubernatorial primary ticket of the party ahead of other contestants. From the results available at press time Fr.Alia was leading with a wide margin and looking poised to win the primaries. The was massive turn out of delegates at most wards visited in Makurdi, Gwer, Wannune and Gwer local government areas.