THE leadership of Deeper Life Church (DLC) has expressed hope that the visit of General Superintendent of the church, Pastor W.F. Kumuyi would help to address the insecurity challenges facing the state. Kumuyi is scheduled to storm Aba, the commercial nerve of the state for what leaders of the church in the state described as a revival crusade. Addressing journalists in Aba, the State Overseer, Abia 2 of the church, Pastor Obinna Nkenjika said Nigeria and the world at large have problems and that men of God like Pastor W.F Kumuyi have been going around, proffering solutions to such challenges. Pastor Nkenjika said the Deeper Life Church and indeed all Christians in Abia will host Pastor Kumuyi from May 24-29, adding that nobody would attend the six-day fold event and remain the same. “Nobody I assure you will attend the six-day fold event without his or her life being changed for good” Nkenjika said the crusade’s theme: ‘Jesus Power for Extraordinary Breakthrough,’ was apt because Abia was in dire need of a breakthrough. “Abia needs a breakthrough and with the coming of Pastor Kumuyi, God has remembered the state, and after the visit, things will begin to turn around positively.   2023: Don’t use free forms to kill women’s ambitions,…     PEARL Awards set to host 25th edition     JAMB releases 2022 UTME result   He said over 500,000 people from across the state and beyond would be expected at the crusade. The State Overseer, Abia 1, Pastor Adeniji Hassan said Abia like Nigeria has numerous problems, which Pastor Kumuyi’s coming will solve. “Kumuyi is a problem solver and his coming to Abia will bring the solution to the problems facing the state. Raw miracles will happen during the visit,” he assured. He said on arrival, the Deeper Life Church General Superintendent would pay a courtesy call on Governor Okezie Ikpeazu. Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Abia Chapter, Pastor Emmanuel Agomuo said CAN in the state is fully involved in Pastor Kumuyi’s visit, stressing that Abia needs a strong man of God like the Deeper Life Church GS to liberate it from its bondage. “Abia needs a strong man of God like Pastor Kumuyi to pray for it and it is our hope that at the end of his visit, there will be a change in the state because a lot has happened for some time now”. He advised all irrespective of their faith to come out en masse to receive Pastor Kumuyi at the Abia Mega Mall, Osisioma for the six days crusade.