Although born as Segun Aderemi in Modadake, Osun State, on May 7, 1958, he was popularly known as Segun Sango among his friends, compatriots and comrades, in his uncompromising commitment to the struggle for a just, fair, democratic and equitable Nigeria that spanned over four decades. We today join in mourning the demise on May 23, of this most intriguing and uncommon of figure on the country’s political terrain. His name does not readily come to the forefront of public consciousness unlike many of those who have held public office and amassed considerable wealth in contemporary Nigeria. This is one of those things that make Comrade Sango unique as a man of meager means who nevertheless was consistently dedicated to the common good, particularly the welfare of the vast majority of poor, underprivileged and deprived Nigerians while devoting all of his time, talent and energy to rendering selfless public service to his country men and women, despite never occupying any office in government. A lifelong Marxist revolutionary and socialist organiser, Segun Sango’s ideological orientation was not a function of indolence or not having the skills and opportunities to seek and pursue a more materially comfortable lifestyle if he so chose. He obtained a Bachelor of Arts degree in Law from the then University of Ife, Ile-Ife, Osun State, now Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), before proceeding to the Law School and qualifying to practice as a lawyer in Nigeria. Sango could readily have opted to utilise his legal knowledge and expertise to pursue his personal pecuniary interest and the comfort of his family, but he consciously chose to dedicate his life to fighting for the emancipation and empowerment of the poor, in a society in which all too many join in the rat race to accumulate wealth at all cost. As a student, Sango was an irrepressible activist on campus and a prominent member of the student leaders of his generation who mobilised, organised and participated in the struggle against military dictatorship as well as socio-economic policies that impoverished the majority of Nigerians. During the Buhari-Idiagbon military regime between December 1983 and August 1985, for instance, he was one of the activists who organised a boycott of lectures by Nigerian students nationwide, in protest against what they perceived as the anti-poor policies of the government epitomised, for instance, by the marked increase in the cost of education. Consequently, Sango was among those arrested by the regime for unlawful assembly and were released after four days in detention. He was an active participant in the popular struggles against the economic hardships resulting from the General Ibrahim Babangida’s Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP), which encompassed policies such as removal of fuel subsidy, devaluation of the Naira, reduction of the public sector workforce and increase in tuition fees in higher institutions. Segun Sango was also at the forefront of the resistance, not just to the annulment of the outcome of the June 12, 1993, presidential election won by Chief M.K.O. Abiola but also against continued military dictatorship in the country. He was one of those detained by the General Sani Abacha regime and was only released after the dictator’s death.   Free riders in our democratic train     Nigeria’s slave market democracy     Mama Igosun resumes the offensive   With the return to civil rule in 1999, it would have been much easier and convenient for Sango to join mainstream political parties, which would have more likely afforded him the opportunity to attain elective or appointive public office. Rather, he chose to remain true to his ideological convictions and participated in forming and leading parties and organisations that he believed were genuinely committed to the just allocation and democratic management of society’s collective resources. In this regard, he played a key role in the formation and registration of the National Conscience Party (NCP) led by the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi, and was the former leader and Chairman of the Lagos State chapter of the party. Among others, Comrade Sango was the founding General Secretary of the Democratic Socialist Movement (DSM), the main inspiration behind the formation of the Socialist Party of Nigeria (SPN) and its foundational leader, as well as one of the key figures behind the organisation of the Revolutionary Socialist Movement (RSM), a national organisation formed to defend farmers, peasants and students and the right of Nigerian workers to a living wage, and to organise in democratic unions. Even though political actors like Sango may not achieve electoral success in a monetised political system like ours, they serve as invaluable critics, help in educating the public politically and their efforts may ultimately culminate in the emergence of political organisations capable of putting the dominant parties on their toes. Referring to the current dismal state of affairs in Nigeria, he once declared that “This is not a society we can bequeath to our children; so this is a clarion call for social transformation and revolution. We need a determined working class party that people can believe in. The task may be difficult but as the Chinese say ‘the journey of a thousand miles begins with a step’. We have to begin today, otherwise the current generation will be worse for it”. We say good night to this revolutionary patriot who had given his best to his fatherland. May God strengthen and comfort his loved ones.