National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has assured Nigerians would not regret if they make him President in 2023. He gave the assurance while rubbing minds with delegates of the party in Kano State ahead of the presidential primaries. Tinubu has been in Kano since Thursday. He landed at Malam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA) and was received by teeming supporters. The frontline presidential aspirant was officially hosted by Kano Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje and members of his cabinet as well as the APC chairman Abdullahi Abbas. Tinubu, in a long convoy, was escorted to the houses of business mogul, Alhaji Aminu Alhassan Dantata, and his old-time friend and political associate, Alhaji Yusuf Ali, where he had brief discussions with the two elders about his presidential ambition. From Yusuf Ali’s residence, Tinubu proceeded to Sani Abacha Stadium’s Indoor Sports Hall.   Erosion threatens community in Jonathan’s LGA     Police parade suspected killers of sound engineer, seven…     We are after foreigners operating Okada in Lagos — CP   At the stadium, the former Lagos Governor met a waiting mammoth crowd of supporters. From the stadium, he left for Government House, Kano, and held a long meeting with delegates at the Coronation Hall. While wooing Kano delegates, the party cheiftain explained why he should be supported to emerge the party’s presidential candidate. “I hereby appeal to you to support my presidential ambition. Vote for me to clinch the party’s ticket at the forthcoming primary election. “Today is the day I have come to ask for your support to be president of Nigeria. You can put me there with your votes. “I believe in myself. I’m smart, intelligent and courageous, don’t make mistake, choose wisely, choose me, I beg you and you will never regret supporting me,” Tinubu said. Tinubu promised to tackle insecurity, revive the economy, develop agriculture and as well as improve road infrastructure. Ganduje said Tinubu had done so much for the ruling party and it was pay-back time for him. The Governor stressed: “Tinubu has sacrificed alot for the growth and unity of APC. Tinubu remains a brand of leader Nigeria and Nigerians need at this point of the nation’s history. Tinubu has the intellect and political will to reposition the country and give Nigerians good leadership.”