The Business Assets & Intellectual Property Valuation Division, Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers (NIESV), has called on the Federal Government to give attention to the development of an intellectual property hub. Its Chairman Olalekan Akinwunmi, made the call in Lagos during the World Intellectual Property Day. This year’s theme was: “IP and youths: Innovating for a better future”. In a statement, Akinwunmi said this year’s campaign was an eye- opener for youths to realise their potential, and to understand how the tools of the IP system could support their aspirations. The IP system tools, according to Akinwunmi, include trademarks, design rights, copyright, patents, plant variety rights, geographical indications, and trade secrets.   Lagos demolishes two distressed buildings     Stakeholders decry high cost of construction     ‘Why El-Rufai regularised two layouts’   He said the theme was apt because “the youth are a largely untapped source of ingenuity and creativity”. According to Akinwunmi, also a board member, Estate Surveyors and Valuers Registration Board of Nigeria (ESVARBON), it is imperative to focus on the youth as they possess fresh perspectives, energy, curiosity and “can-do” attitude, not to mention their hunger for a better future, are already reshaping approaches and driving action for innovation and change.” Akinwunmi added: “We implore the Federal Government to build IP hubs, geared towards the youth. We need to encourage our youths at every stratum by having enabling laws that protect their rights.This would, in turn, attract direct foreign investment via innovations. “The value of the entertainment and creative industry is in the trillions of naira, the proper enhancement to reflect in our Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and income is very necessary and we should know that the youth dominate this industry. “The strategy of converting their discoveries and inventions to money is very important, that is where we become relevant, the valuation of this right is very germane, this is a pointer that their future is bright because they could see value for their talents and works.”