Winners emerged yesterday in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) House of Representatives primaries. Rivers In Rivers, delegates re-elected Awaji-Inombek Abiante as a candidate for the Andoni-Opobo/Nkoro Federal Constituency  . Ofiks Kagbang was elected candidate for the Andoni state constituency. Bayelsa Former Chairman of Ogbia Local Government Area in Bayelsa State, Ebiyoun Turner was elected as a candidate for the PDP for the Ogbia Federal Constituency. He defeated three aspirants, including the incumbent member of the House of Representatives, Fred Obua and a .former Commissioner for Information,  Daniel Iworiso-Markson. At the Yenagoa Federal Constituency, a member of the State House Assembly,  Oboku Oforji defeated  Ogbo Okolovie while Rodney Ambaiowei beat another former  Commissioner, Kurokegha Dorgu(aka Kabaka) in  Southern Ijaw Federal Constituency. Results from   Brass/Nembe and Sagbama/Ekeremor Federal constituencies were being awaited as of the time of filing this report. Meanwhile, PDP leadership has condemned the murder of one Michael Isaiah in Ogbia, the venue of the Ogbia Constituency 1 primary. Kwara Alhaji Ibrahim Ajia, a 2019 Kwara governorship aspirant won the primary  for Asa/Ilorin West Federal Constituency. Ajia was declared the winner after polling 82 out of the 89 votes cast at the shadow poll. He said his victory signalled a brighter day for the party to return to power in 2023. Plateau In Plateau State,  Dachung  Bagos, picked the ticket to contest for the House of Representatives. Bagos, who represents  Jos East/Jos South, Federal Constituency floored former   House of Assembly Speaker, Abok Ayuba. Also, the  member representing Jos North/Bassa Federal Constituency, Musa Agah  beat  Aminu Izang,   David Goyol, Bridget Pwajok, Edward Bingek and Timothy Buba Gombe Three out of the 30 that emerged as candidates for  Gombe State House of Assembly and  House of Representatives are females. The women are Aishatu Ahmad for Akko federal constituency; Saratu Jairo and Meriji Major for Balanga North and Balanga South state constituencies respectively. Others  that  emerged for the House of Representatives are  Umar Kalajanga, Adamu Kashere, Meriji Majoro,Saratu Jauro Yakubu Ladollis  and Nimrod Yari. Benue Five serving House of Representatives members and a former Information Commissioner, Ojotu Ojema, were given the green light in the state.   Dagogo: Court order threatens Rivers governorship primary     Goje denies participating in PDP primary     Singer Banky W gets Eti-Osa ticket   They emerged victorious alongside  27   House of Assembly aspirants after the primaries which began on Sunday ended yesterday morning. The House of Representatives candidates are Richard Gbande, Terkaa Terkaa, Bob Tyough, John Dyegh and  Benjamin Bem. Nasarawa   Minority leader, Nasarawa State House of Assembly  Abel  Bala emerged as the candidate. Others that were elected as candidates for the state Assembly include Peter Akwe,   Luka  Zhekaba, Ibrahim Adamu,  Jibrin Oloshu,  Mohammed Ibrahim,  Tanko Daniel,  Esson Mairiga,  Zaidi  Babanlungu  Basil Osheka, Deboy  Chorio, Ahmed  Musa, Idris Ojoko and  Jonah Ali. As of the time of filing this report, five aspirants had been announced as House of Representatives candidates. They are Ombamas Usman,  Daniel Adamu, Babawe Bulus,  Ibrahim Dallah and Bunu Awe Adamawa   PDP delegates in the state elected all eight House of Representatives members as candidates. They   are   Zakariya  Nyampa,  Mohammed  Bassi, Mohammed  Girei,  James Barka, Mustapha Saidu; Komati Lore;  Jingi Rufai; and Guyuk Shelleng. The state Organising Secretary of the PDP, Hamza Madagali, said:  “Those who emerged winners have automatically become the party’s candidates for the 2023 general elections in their respective constituencies.” Gombe: Six and 24 candidates that emerged were elected for the House of Representatives and State House of Assembly respectively. The six elected for the  House of Representatives poll  are El-Rasheed Abdullahi,  Yaya -Bauchi Tongo,  Aishatu Ahmad, Inuwa Garba, Ali Isa  and Obed Shehu Taraba The processes produced   four  House of Assembly candidates: Mohammed Ismaila, Audu Lauya, Joseph Nagombe and Pius Sabo. However, the election for Takum/Donga/Ussa Constituency was inconclusive as former  Speaker Istifanus Gbana and  Majority Leader   Douglas  Ndatse had a tie. Bauchi     Speaker of the House of Assembly, Abubakar  Suleiman, emerged winner of the PDP State Assembly primary. It was learnt that the Speaker was unopposed. He thanked the delegates, party leaders, and his constituents for their support. Deputy Speaker Danlami Kawule lost his bid for the House of Representatives. Others who lost are the former Commissioners Ibrahim Abdulkadir (Works and Transport) and Maryam  Bagel (Science and Technology). Ali Garu, who defeated Kawule said that his victory was for democracy and the good people of Bauchi Federal Constituency.