The Nigerian Exchange (NGX) has stressed the need for diversification of portfolios by investors to minimise risks and ensure enhanced return on investment. Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Exchange (NGX), Temi Popoola stated this, as the stock market continued its rally. Benchmark index for the NGX, the All Share Index (ASI)  posted a year-to-date return of  23.1 per cent as at May 25, 2022, trading above the psychological 50,000 points for the first time since the 2008 crash. Popoola stated that in spite of the current appreciation in prices of equities in the country, opportunities still exist for investors in other assets classes. He said as a multi-asset Exchange, NGX has various products for every investor regardless of what their investment goals, risk appetite or return expectations might be, listing the products as equities, fixed income, Exchange Traded Funds and Derivatives. According to him, there are opportunities in every segment of the market. It is important for investors to do the analysis, understand where those opportunities are, as there are opportunities, not only in the equity side but across the various asset classes.   FrieslandCampina WAMCO records 35% revenue growth     13% MPR: Interest rate may rise above 30%     Naira falls across markets   He stressed that diversification of the portfolio would go a long way to reduce risks, explaining the need for investors to re-balance their portfolio. Popoola, however, said the Nigerian capital market and the business of the stock exchange would always be impacted by dynamic economic trends and investor demands. Explaining further, he said achieving success through growth that creates value will increase the Exchange’s ability to operate efficiently and profitably in the transient advantage economy that has unfolded in Nigeria and around the world. “While there has been no respite in the macro economy and operating environment due to lingering oil price and foreign exchange pressures, our long-term outlook for the Exchange remains positive as listed companies continue to show resilience and our members have been repositioned to deliver superior value to investors,” Popoola said. He noted that NGX would continue to find more products that a lot of Nigerians and the youth demography are attracted to, and introduce to the market.