We live in unusual times and in an uncomfortable space in which killers strike everyday, sending innocent souls to untimely death and creating misery and fear for their families and friends in particular, and, indeed, for Nigerians in general. As a result, farmers are afraid to go to their farms. Travellers are afraid to get on the road, on the train, or on the plane. The fear that the situation might get worse by election time is behind the clamour for modifying established constitutional requirements to sort things out. There are two distinct groups of killers-violent killers and symbolic killers. Neither group is monolithic. One subgroup of violent killers uses weapons-guns, machetes, explosives, and other instruments of physical destruction. This subgroup is made up of those we call terrorists, bandits, gunmen, and kidnappers. When these killers operate in the North, the Nigerian press generally describes them as terrorists (especially in the Northeast) or bandits (especially in the Northwest). When a similar group operates in the South, especially in the Southeast, the press often (but not always) labels them as gunmen. These distinctions are tenuous at best. They are all terrorists. They may not be competing for territory like Boko Haram once did; but they all create fear and uncertainty across the entire population as there is no state in which one or the other of these killers has not operated. The Global Centre for the Responsibility to Protect lists Nigeria as a population at serious risk. It is on the verge of another notorious title-the terrorist capital of the world. In its March 1, 2022, report, the Global Centre asserts that “increased attacks by armed groups, as well as continued attacks by Boko Haram and the Islamic State in West Africa, leave civilians at risk of mass atrocity crimes”. Focusing on five-year data for just one killer group in one region alone, the report affirms that “more than 5,000 people were killed in the north-west by armed bandits since 2018”. When the data were stretched back to 2009 to include Boko Haram, which launched its insurgency in that year, the Centre found that at least 35,000 people have been killed in northern Nigeria alone and at least 2.2 million people are Internally Displaced Persons in Adamawa, Borno, and Yobe states, all in the north-east. And these are reported cases only. One can now imagine the size of the casualties, if data were aggregated for the entire country. The casualties include traditional and religious leaders, legislators, university professors, businessmen, and schoolchildren. They have killed old and young, male and female, rich and poor, Muslims, and Christians. And they are still killing as I write. Similarly, according to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, the security situation in Nigeria has resulted in a humanitarian emergency, “with more than 8.7 million people requiring urgent assistance”. This includes the IDPs and others whose farms and villages were plundered. The other subgroup of violent killers consists of explosive oil pipelines and illegal refineries. Of course, their operators do not intend to kill or maim anyone; but they engage in dangerous activities in order to make quick money. These are greedy thieves who vandalise oil pipelines to steal oil, some of which end up in illegal refineries. From time to time, this illegal business becomes a weapon that kills them and others. The most recent case occurred in an illegal refinery in Imo state, which led to over 100 deaths and severe property damage.   Travails of a nation on trial     VCs’ wives: How town’s rot has infiltrated gown     The local dimensions of Nigerian presidential politics   The second group of killers consists of symbolic killers. It is made up of politicians, civil servants, and contractors. They do not carry guns like terrorists and bandits. Their weapon is corruption, that is, the mindless misappropriation of public funds for personal gain. True, not all politicians and civil servants are corrupt. But you will have a hard time identifying saints among the present generation of public and civil servants. If they don’t steal public funds, they at least engage in wasteful spending or embark on elephant projects of little or no benefit to the citizens. Just go to Abuja and see how public funds have been used to build humongous homes, sometimes in unlikely places in the city. Why do I regard corruption as a symbolic killer? Because it is a silent killer, often misrecognised for its invisibility. Unlike a gun, which kills instantly, corruption kills gradually over time, often through deprivation. It has killed millions of Nigerians since independence, by depriving them of needed security, education, healthcare, and infrastructural facilities that would have enabled them to live happy, healthy, and fulfilled lives. These deficits account for the short life expectancy of about 55 years for the average Nigerian today. They also account for Nigeria’s low ranking on all international indices. It is not the case that Nigeria lacks the funds to make life more abundant for her citizens like Chief Obafemi Awolowo sought to do in the old Western Region. The problem is that even more than the amount needed to achieve this purpose has been stolen. How do we know? In 2019, it was widely reported that between N582 billion (Chatham House) and N600 billion (The Economist) had been stolen from Nigeria since independence. Four years earlier in 2015, our own EFCC confirmed that about $20 trillion had been stolen from the treasury by those who had access to the nation’s funds between 1960 and 2005! (Vanguard, March 25, 2015). What better examples of such people than the Accountant General of the Federation and the former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, who were arrested last week by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, for allegedly misappropriating over N80 billion and N47 billion of public funds, respectively. It is against the above backgrounds that the plight of Nigerians today must be understood. This plight is accentuated by the current government’s debt profile, which amounts to mortgaging the future of the citizens for years to come. It is bad enough for Nigeria to be the poverty capital of the world. It would be worse if it became the terrorism capital of the world, a notoriety it may soon acquire if the present trend remains unchecked. But for now, if you are lucky to escape the terrorist’s gun or being kidnapped and tortured, you may not escape the social and economic consequences of corruption, the silent killer.