The Nigeria Women Football League (NWFL) yesterday unveiled Tulcan Energy Resources as the sole sponsor of its Premiership Super Six; the final league play-off to determine the 2021/2022 Women’s league champions and Nigeria’s representative for the 2022 CAF Women Champions League. The unveiling ceremony was co-ordinated by the Chairperson of NWFL, Aisha Falode, in the presence of the First Vice president of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Barrister Seyi Akinwunmi; the Head Strategy, Tulcan Energy Resources, Dolapo Akinwale and representatives of the league sponsors, Peculiar Ultimate Concerns, Barrister Mrs. Peace Udoka Adeleke. Following the unveiling of Tulcan Energy Resources, the contract of agreement for the sponsorship was then signed and sealed by Akinwale on behalf of the sponsors and Falode on behalf of the NWFL even as the duo later jointly unveiled the Tulcan Energy Resources branded jersey for the six participating clubs namely Edo Queens, Rivers Angels, Bayelsa Queens, Delta Queens, Naija Ratels and Nasarawa   Villarreal 2-3 Liverpool: Liverpool subdues Villarreal to…     UCL: Liverpool beat Villarreal 3 – 2, qualify for…     RC Lens 2-2 Nantes: Simon makes Team of the Week in France   An elated Falode said the sponsorship of the Super Six by Tulcan Energy Resources was a testament to the good works and consistency the league has demonstrated over the years, adding: “The sponsorship is to create more impactful, competitive and more meaningful development in the Women’s football league.” The Tulcan Energy Resources representative said that the company was willing to enter a long term sponsorship agreement with the NWFL on the Super Six, adding the tournament has been guaranteed N10 million in prize money with the eventual champion taking home N5 million while the second place and third place teams would take home N3 million and N2 million respectively. According to Falode, each of the six teams will further pocket an additional one million naira for wearing the Tulcan Energy Resources branded jerseys by Owu Sports Wears Limited throughout the tournament. The representative of the major sponsors of the NWFL Premiership, Peculiar Ultimate Concerns, Barrister (Mrs). Adeleke who was one of the four special guests that picked the official draws for the Super Six, expressed the company’s commitment towards a total support for the development of women’s football in Nigeria with their sponsorship, adding ‘it will be a long term romance’.