A thigh injury in the decisive game of the men’s singles final stopped Nigeria’s Quadri Aruna as  Egypt’s  Omar Assar  claimed the 2022 ITTF Africa Cup  title in Lagos at the weekend. Despite going down 12-14 in the first game, Aruna reclaimed the lead with 11-8, 11-4 win but the Egyptian gained  the lead with 11-13, 6-11 win. Yet Aruna restored parity at 3-3 with 11-5 win in the sixth game and was heading to victory in the deciding game at 4-0 when he copped a thigh injury that received treatment for several minutes. On resumption, he practically  surrendered   the title to the Egyptian  at the capacity crowd match played at the Molade Okoya-Thomas Hall of the Teslim Balogun Stadium. “Of course, I gave almost everything, from when I could move, to when I couldn’t move very well again,” Aruna said.“ I was already feeling tightness from my thigh; of course I never gave up as I was still fighting on until finally at 3-3, and at 4-0, I was leading, it is one of those things in sports but I am very happy with my performance.” An excited Assar said: “I am very happy to perform here in Lagos, and I believe here is the place I have received the most support in my career. It has been so long since I last played here because of the COVID-19 pandemic; “ I believe here is the best place to play in Africa.   Moses wins  Russian Cup with Spartak Moscow     Nottingham Forest wins EPL promotion  after 23-year wait     Oshoala claims Copa de La Reina with Barcelona   “I am worried about Aruna’s injury. Aruna and I are very close friends outside the court. To me, the most important thing is that he is healthy and that he is not in pain. I wish him all the best and soonest recovery,” he said. Meanwhile,  14-year-old Hana Goda claimed her first senior title in Africa after beating Nigeria’s Fatimo Bello 4-0 (11-7, 11-5, 11-4, 11-6) to become the youngest winner of the continental championship. Debuting Goda  was number two seed in the women’s singles but  she  was at her best from the group matches to the final to become the youngest at 14 years and five months to win the continental tournament at the expense of  the former champions. The Egyptian also  secured her place at the 2022 World Table Tennis (WTT) Cup Finals later in the year: “I am very excited and very thankful that I won. “Everything here in Lagos is so good. From the organisation to the hospitality, everyone here is so kind and the fans, they make you feel so ready in the match. Before the final, I was really motivated with the fans’ support and I’m going to remember this place forever because when you win your first senior title, you will be happy in it forever,” Goda added. The three-day tournament had 48 players (28 men and 20 women) across Africa competing in the men’s and women’s singles events.