Marketing communications company, Algorithm Media has launched a renowned data management product, Audience Origin in Nigeria and 11 other African countries. Audience Origin, a data-driven product owned by WPP’s choreograph is a customer- centric approach to data management, usage and brand growth. It was debuted in Nigeria and other African markets of Cameron, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Kenya and Morocco. Group Chief Executive Officer, Algorithm Media Seni Adetu, the firm being part of WPP is taking their commitment to truly understanding consumers to a different level by launching Audience Origin. “Algorithm Media has taken the biggest step anyone in the media industry has taken in terms of servicing our clients and making their businesses stronger with Audience Origin, Adetu said. Research Director, Audience Origin, Ramona Daniel reiterated that Audience Origin is more relevant and urgently needed in Africa. Daniel said: “Many advertisers lack robust and reliable consumer research data which is glocal in orientation leaving a gap in harnessing data that can be leveraged from global perspectives, though retrieved from local sources.   Union Bank posts N6.4b profit in first quarter     Firm unveils zero-interest financing for SMEs     Coronation Merchant Bank posts N2.8b profit   “This product makes it possible to o segment consumers using more defined psychographic details such as hobbies, media consumption patterns and consumer touch points. This way the consumer CNA be defined by understanding their behaviours and motivations enabling us to propose viable working solutions to business challenges. Managing Director, Wavemaker, a subsidiary of Algorithm Media, Mr. Soji Olaogun stated that generating quality insights and data for marketing brands has been a challenge in Nigeria, a country of enormous opportunities. He said, “with Audience Origin we can use real life data to understand the consumers and create an authentic connection with them and our client’s brands”. Chief Executive Officer, WPP, Dominic Grainger said: “We are building a much more consolidated WPP offer, I think altogether we have more opportunity to help our clients grow their businesses across the world. As the world becomes even more digital and data driven, we see a massive amount of opportunity for our clients to connect more effectively with consumers as we go forward.’’ Royal Father of the day, Akarigbo of Remo land, His Royal Majesty, Oba Babatunde Ajayi, FCA, commended Algorithm Media for the initiative. He prayed for its success and assured partners of a robust relationship with the company. “It’s always a thing of joy when we see growth like this, we have very incredible people in Nigeria and you will not have cause to regret bringing Audience Origin to Nigeria, he said.