Dr Alex Otti has announced his withdrawal from Abia All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary. The candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the 2015 and 2019 polls said he will pursue his governorship ambition in another party. He withdrew less than 24 hours before the commencement of the exercise. Otti, who joined APC a few years ago, in a statement by his media aide, Ferdinand Ekeoma, claimed that he was forced to withdraw from the APC gubernatorial primary because of what he described as the imposition of an unpopular aspirant. The APC chieftain, who assured that he would be making his next step known to his supporters, in a statement titled: “Withdrawal from the APC governorship primaries,” said his decision was borne out of his commitment to ensuring the dawn of a new era of progressive and people-oriented leadership in the State. “That the Constitution of the party and the electoral act have no room for coercion and imposition of candidates, hence the wise provision for either Direct Primaries, Indirect Primaries, or Consensus as acceptable modes of electing candidates.   Security operatives take over venue of Rivers Gov primary     Lesser delegates for primaries good – Bala Mohammed     BREAKING: Ekweremadu withdraws from Enugu Gov race   “That while the rest of the aspirants had agreed to rally round and support any aspirant that wins the governorship primaries through a free and fair contest, a particular aspirant who obviously believes that he doesn’t stand a chance in a proper contest, rather chose to align with outside forces to be imposed on the party. “But because we know that any product of imposition for the governorship ticket in the APC at a time like this in Abia would stand little chance in the general election, we strongly opposed it. “That it’s my firm belief that anyone who wants to govern Abia state and Abians, must be someone who has been democratically chosen by the people, and not one imposed by undemocratic or external forces pursuing self-serving agenda that would undermine the welfare and wellbeing of Abians at the long run. “That because I know that no true revolution has ever taken place without hitches and hiccups, my dogged determination and avowed commitment to ensuring the dawn of a new era of progressive and people-oriented leadership has rather been emboldened than dampened. “That because we are on a voyage of Abia redemption, and because the leadership calamity that befell Abia since the return of democracy in 1999 has not abated, we do not intend to quit midway, as that would represent a tragedy of immense proportion for our people who have been on a long search for good governance that would give them a well-deserved reprieve. “That in the light of the above-stated facts, I hereby withdraw from the predetermined governorship primaries of the All Progressives Congress slated to take place in the next few days. “This well thought the decision was taken after due consultation with the army of our supporters, stakeholders, and above all, respected leaders of the APC within and outside Abia state. “Finally, we wish to inform our teeming supporters and well-wishers that, having been roundly blessed and equipped by God, there’s no cause for alarm over this development, as we are more than ever resolved to pursue our ambition on another platform, and would give it our best to ensure we convincingly and legitimately win the mandate of our people come 2023.”