As political boundaries separating geographic spaces like communities, provinces, counties, countries or towns from each other, either natural or artificial, borders have always played political roles. However, social, economic, and religious transactions happen across borders, more so in a globalised world. Countries have huge territorial jurisdiction over their borders and as such determine who and what activities can operate through them. The Nigerian government had in August 2019 ordered the closure of all its land borders as a way of checking the illegal importation of food, drugs, arms and other products from sister West African countries. Another reason given by the presidency for the border closure was to encourage Nigerians to consume locally produced agricultural products and encourage farmers, in order to create employment. According to President Muhammadu Buhari, the country has the land, people and the capital to produce what its huge population can consume. However, the Seme, Mfum, Illela and Maigatari border posts were reopened in December 2020. The recent instruction to the Nigerian Customs Service to reopen additional borders of Idiroko in Ogun State, Jibiya in Katsina State, Kamba in Kebbi State, and Ikom border in Cross River has been a subject of national discourse. What are the economic implications, what value did the country get from the closure, are there statistics to show implementation and the value thereof? We commend the attempt by the government to encourage local production and discourage the illegal importation of drugs, food and arms into the country through those borders. However, we feel that closure of borders for such long periods, no matter the reasons, (except in war situations) says a lot about the system as a whole. Borders are international gateways for countries and there are statutory agencies that ensure that the laws guiding the international bilateral and multilateral relations are implementated to the letter. The Immigration, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC),  Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), and many other agencies that are supposed to check the movement of people and commercial products at the borders have merely been tacitly declared incompetent.   Fayose’s no-brainer     2023: Before APC, PDP bury zoning     Let’s play according to the rules, Oyetola urges politicians   As a rule, border closure must not be seen as a magic wand to encourage local patronage of goods and services. The government ought to ensure that those manning the borders in different capacities do their jobs. Blanket border closure can never be the solution to the ills of cross-border criminal and illegal activities. Some observers even insist that nothing changed between the time the borders were closed and when they were reopened because there were no checks and balances at those posts. There were even suggestions that the borders in some sections of the country were never really closed at any point. Given that there are still tons of imported food items like rice and other products in the Nigerian market, there is still a proliferation of small arms and light weapons, fuelling increased insecurity and the high cost of food items in the market, we would expect the government to do some soul-searching. Did the border closure open more room for smugglers? Why are the youths still having access to drugs? Has there been a reduction or an increase of all the things government claimed the borders were closed to achieve? Government must learn to build strong institutions and stop the knee-jerk approach of random border closures. In a twenty-first century world, border security is being enhanced with technology, including drones. Also, the human angle to securing a country’s borders should be taken more seriously, given the problem that insecurity of lives and property has been to our socio-economic life. The allegation that most of the criminal activities of some herdsmen, bandits, unknown gunmen, Boko Haram, ISWAP and other terror organisations are traceable to non-Nigerians says a lot about the works being done by our border control personnel. The government must take better policy actions like strengthening bilateral relations with sister African nations, with a view to making them more concerned about the consequences of breaking certain economic agreements. We equally feel that there must be an audit of the gains or losses of the border closures to serve as a guide for the future.