WHY did the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) announce resumption of train services on the Abuja-Kaduna route today, when security is still a big issue and the vast majority of kidnapped victims of the train attack two months ago are still in captivity? It wasn’t well thought out. The corporation has had a rethink, and will not resume services on the route today as scheduled. The most important consideration now should be bringing the captives back, which may well have influenced the latest decision. NRC spokesman Yakub Mahmoud said a new date would be announced. The corporation appealed to the relatives of people held hostage “to be patient and cooperate with the corporation and the security agencies as the Federal Government is exploring all possible ways and means to ensure the safe release of their loved ones from captivity, soonest.” The tragic terror attack on a train on the Abuja-Kaduna route on March 28 was a result of poor track security.  Gunmen blew up a section of track. The NRC said there were 362 people on board. Sadly, eight passengers were killed, 41 injured, and many were abducted. The NRC had suspended train services on the route.   The ban     FG appoints Nwabuoku to oversee OAGF     Drama, clashes, upsets at PDP Reps, Assembly primaries   The corporation, in a statement, had said the “safe rescue” of the captives “is a top priority,” adding that their relatives should not “misconstrue the resumption of train services, as abandonment or nonchalant attitude of the government towards their plight.” The affected relatives and the general public needed more than words of reassurance, and demanded action and results.  It would have been difficult for the corporation to operate on the route in the circumstances, as the relatives of the captives accused the corporation of insensitivity. The allegation of insensitivity is bad for the corporation’s image. The spokesman of the relatives of the captives, Dr Abdulfatai Jimoh, gave a damning account of the NRC’s role, saying its MD, Mr Fidet Okhiria, “has not met any relatives of the abducted passengers since this incident occurred.” He added: “We made several attempts to meet him but all our efforts were to no avail. We submitted the email addresses of leaders of our group… for the purpose of starting the situation room, but it has been one excuse or the other as nothing has been done in this regard.” Bringing the captives back should come first. This cannot be overemphasised.  The Federal Government should put first things first.