Inadequate manpower in Primary Health Care (PHC) centers in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital, is slowing down immunisation services, The Nation has found. Aside from being the first point of call for health services, PHC centers are meant for expectant mothers and children, especially for immunisation. A visit to PHC centres in Uyo by our correspondent showed that there is a high level of awareness among the citizens, especially among mothers on the need to regularly take their children for immunisation against vaccine-preventable diseases. There are eleven wards in Uyo, with 22 PHCs; this is because some wards have up to two PHCs. Also, there is no single ward that does not have a health facility in Uyo, with some having between 50 to 100 persons to attend to in a day. However, findings by The Nation showed that although all the PHCs in Uyo are actively rendering health services, they are grossly understaffed, which in turn impacts on the immunisation services and the number of persons that can be attended to at any given time. Health Promotion Officer in charge of the PHC Operational Base, Uyo Local Government, Davids Akpan, said: “Concerning immunisation in our state, specifically in Uyo, we have a very good turnout because of the social mobilisation activities that we have been carrying out to create awareness to mothers on the need to give proper immunisation to their children. “One of the major challenges is that we have a shortage of staff here. Once we leave the facility for outreaches, we barely have staff in the PHC to attend to people coming.   Sen Otu wins APC guber primary in Cross River     CUPP spokesman picks PDP Reps ticket     And God decided to show up, by Femi Adesina   “Also, the professional staff that the government permits to immunise or inject are hardly enough. We hear of retirement of qualified staff but no replacement for them. This is our major challenge. “In terms of staff strength, there are different categories – Community Health Extension Workers (CHEW), nurses, health assistants etc. We have one or two doctors, which seems to be from non-governmental organisations (NGOs) of and not being posted as staff. “However, we have very few CHEW and nurses who are the core staff carrying out the immunisation because of retirement. For a long time, there has been no recruitment but retirement.” Chief Nursing Officer and Ward Focal Person in charge of Etoi 1, PHC, Mbiabong, Emem Umoren, explained that although they do not lack vaccines owing to support from the UNICEF, WHO and other international partners, the lack of nurses, community health extension workers, disrupts health service delivery. “The most pressing need is staff strength. For example, in Mbiabong, where I am, if we have enough staff to run all the shifts, it would have been a very busy place. We operate from 8 am to 6 pm. “As it is well-known that delivery is mostly at night; however, there is usually nobody to attend to people at night. This is our major problem for now. We need more nurses and community health extension workers. “Also, we don’t have a doctor or pharmacist in our ward. There is also a need for training for workers,” she said Mrs Chioma Naveni, who brought her child for immunisation, said: “The health workers here are really trying, and since I have been coming here with my child, they have been doing their best to both treat and immunise our children. “We have not had any reason to complain, and our children are healthy. My next appointment is when my baby is a year and six months; all these while my baby has been healthy. They have also been telling us about breastfeeding, weaning the children, and other good health practices.”