The Broadcasting Organisations of Nigeria BON has unveiled the official logo for The Nigerian Broadcasting Awards. The logo was unveiled at a brief ceremony that held at the Silverbird Galleria in Lagos on Tuesday, May 24,  2022. Speaking at the event, the chairman BON, John Ugbe, said the decision to hold The Nigerian Broadcasting Awards was borne out of the need to motivate media practitioners by recognising and rewarding excellence in the industry. “BON is organising The Nigerian Broadcasting Awards to recognise and reward excellence in the Broadcast Media Industry. The aim of the award is to embody international awards for Outstanding achievement in Television and Radio, and distinguished achievement and meritorious service in Broadcasting among others,” Ugbe said.   Seun Kuti & Egypt 80 band partner Roland corporation     How I was able to avoid sex for role, by Nnaji Charity     Toyin Abraham, Odunlade rejoice as Bamidele Onalaja…   The symbolism of the TNBA statuette was explained by members of the Awards steering committee. “The statuette, shaped like a woman, speaks to fertility- of ideas. Broadcasting is a profession of ideas developed and implemented by fertile minds. The raised hands, clutching a star, symbolise triumph borne of the excellence that The Nigerian Broadcasting Awards seek to recognise, celebrate, and reward.'” The awards ceremony, Ugbe also noted, will be steered by the Awards Steering Committee headed by Silverbird Group president, Guy Murray-Bruce, while Strategic Outcomes Limited will consult for the committee. With 13 categories of awards to be given out to broadcasters, Ugbe stressed that the entry submission is open to members and non-members of BON but urged non members to join the association to become more formidable than it already is. Some of the categories of awards are Newscaster of the year (Radio/TV), Reporter of the year (Radio/TV), Presenter of the year (Radio/TV), Radio/TV station of the year and Best Radio/TV show with Indigenous language.