Lagos, Ogun states and a former Chairman, First Bank Nigeria Plc have commended Airtel Nigeria for its generosity in complementing public sector efforts towards lifting the less privileged in the society. Speaking in Lagos at the weekend at the premiere of the Sixth ‘Airtel Touching Lives’ programme, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu commended the operator for its support towards the less privileged, describing the operator as a role model. Represented by the Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Mr. Sam Egube, the governor lauded Airtel for being an example to individuals and organisations in giving. He said: “Airtel is leading as an example for individuals and institutions. They have exhibited the true Lagosian spirit of working in unity, by joining the Government in raising a sustainable nation…. Therefore, as individuals and organisations, let us also make efforts to reach out and empower the less privileged as Airtel is doing.” Also, wife of the Ogun State governor, Mrs. Bamidele Abiodun, lauded Airtel’s efforts in providing relief for the vulnerable and sustaining a robust campaign to encourage other organisations to embrace philanthropy. She said: “I would encourage Airtel to keep doing what they do as well as expand the Airtel Touching Lives programme for an increased impact. I would like to implore Airtel and other entities to keep sharing these inspiring stories for the world to emulate. I am proud to be associated with Airtel Touching Lives, and I look forward to partnering with Airtel.”   GITEX: NITDA, Lagos pledge to deepen start-up ecosystem     SIM-NIN link blues     Challenges before PSB licencees   Also, former Chairman, First Bank Nigeria Plc, Ibukun Awosika thanked Airtel for going the extra mile to take a bit of the burden away from some hardworking Nigerians through its CSR Initiative. A beneficiary of Airtel Touching Lives Season 5, who survived a ghastly accident that damaged his urinary tract until Airtel intervened by supporting him with N8million for corrective surgery in the United Kingdom, commended Airtel for giving him a second chance at life. He said: “I have always heard about stories like this on Television and Radio, but I never knew such an opportunity would come to my doorstep for free. Airtel gave me a second chance without wanting anything in return.” Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Airtel Nigeria, Surendran Chemmenkotil, while speaking on the track record of the initiative said Airtel Touching Lives has not only recorded milestones but has offered real help to individuals, communities, groups, and institutions since the launch of the initiative. “In Season 6, Airtel Nigeria has helped to rebuild a dream, a life, a hospital. We helped children rebuild their confidence, get an education, and we tested millions for COVID. We turned tears of sadness into tears of joy,” he said. He encouraged other corporate entities as well as well public spirited individuals to join hands in improving the society, as collaboration to solve societal problems can make a huge difference, and if the privileged people continue to support the needy, society will excel and triumph at a quicker pace. Airtel Touching Lives takes the format of a reality television show, allowing the public to nominate causes, communities, and underprivileged persons/people with special needs. Airtel thereafter evaluates and selects the causes to support, and the activities are filmed and broadcasted on terrestrial and satellite television stations with the aim of inspiring other corporate organisations as well as well-meaning individuals to join in supporting the weak across society.