AHEAD of the gubernatorial primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC), contenders for the ticket in Benue State continue to ramp up efforts in consultations with party leaders and stakeholders in their bid to clinch the gubernatorial nomination of the opposition party. The Nation had reported last week that the leaders of the party in the Food Basket of The Nation are considering the option of consensus in the selection of the party’s gubernatorial candidate. During a retreat last week in Abuja, the indication was given by the leader of the party in the state, the Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, Senator George Akume. In line with the pronouncement, the Benue State APC had on Monday announced its decision to zone the ticket to two intermediate areas Jechira and Zone C in their quest for a guber candidate. According to a statement signed by Rt. Hon. Paul Biam on behalf of the Benue State APC gubernatorial zoning committee, the resolutions were a fall out of the retreat where they discussed the genuine modalities to assist them in reducing the number of aspirants for the office. Rt Hon. Paul Biam, APC State Secretary who doubles as Secretary, Governorship Zoning Committee, said “the Committee painstakingly reviewed all issues as it relates to both intermediate /zonal areas that have benefitted from governorship positions since the return of democracy in 1978. The Committee came to understand that kwande intermediate area that is has parading very qualified aspirants to the governorship positions has had it twice having won for the first time and was also reelected for a second time and was indeed sworn in as against their brothers from Jechira intermediate area that won only once and was able to do below half of its term of four years. “We also acknowledged the fact that Zone C which is an integral part of the state has never benefited from the position since the return of Democracy in 1978 based on the following analysis as it relates to the issue of governorship. The Committee came to a conclusion considered to be the most fair in the circumstances to this end the following resolutions were adopted by the zoning Committee of our party,” the statement read. The party announced that the Kwande intermediate area in Zone A should sheathe their ambition, while appealing to those affected, to cooperate and embrace peace in the interest of the party. With this new development, only the contenders from both Jechira and Zone C intermediate areas are expected to continue in their pursuit of becoming a candidate of the party. The list includes Engr. Terhemen Tilley-Gyado; Mr Joe Waya; Prof Terhemba Shija; Rev. Fr. Hyacinth Alia; Hon. John Tsuwa; Prof Ben Yisa and Terlumum Ikya among others.There are also Senator Chief Barnabas Germade, Hon. Herman Herbert from Jechira as well as Chief Steve Lawani and Hon. Dr. Sam Ode from Benue South Senatorial District. According to sources, the list may further be pruned down to leave only those from Vandeikya LGA and Zone C because Konshisha LGA had also produced a governor in the past. According to the record, in the last 23 years of democracy in Benue, the people of Konshisha from Jechira have also produced 2 Senators (12 years) and a House of Representatives member for 16 years. Ahead of the primaries, The Nation looks at the four top contenders from Vandeikya and Zone C who could emerge as the candidate in the next two weeks. Terhemba Shija The 61-year-old academic and politician was a former member of the House of Representatives in 1992. A former Commissioner in the state, he has consulted widely among party stalwarts and is well-positioned for the ticket.   My grouse with Osinbajo – Dele Momodu     Ondo: Many hurdles before incumbents in senate race     PDP ticket: Atiku, Tambuwal, Saraki, Bala in fresh horse…   However, there are reportedly concerns about his relationship with the leader of the party in the state, Senator George Akume. During the latter’s tenure as a governor, Prof Shija, who was Commissioner of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, resigned in mysterious circumstances. Nonetheless, the novelist is leaving no stones unturned in his bid to emerge as the candidate and he is clearly one of the visible aspirants in the state. Regardless of the skirmishes in the past, he might well become the candidate. Terhemen Tilley-Gyado   The youngest of the pack, the 41-year-old UK-trained Engineer and Public Policy expert has been growing in leaps and bounds in his guber bid. He was a top contender for the Konshisha/Vandeikya Federal constituency ticket in 2019 before he was undone by the party arrangement. Despite having relatively entered into the fray a bit late, he enjoys the goodwill of the stakeholders on account of his intellect and strong campaign messaging #TodayToday, signalling urgency in governance challenges. He has commanded appeal from the young people in the state, the largest voter base. Aside from these, sources also said that Engr. Terhemen’s candidacy may be helped greatly by the love and respect his grandfather, Chief Gerome Gyado, commands in the state. It was gathered that some stakeholders of the party believe that the Gyados’ charm and prestige would match Governor Samuel Ortom-led PDP toe-to-toe in the elections. The young man has been in the thick of the action lately and it won’t be surprising if he gets it. Paul Terlumun Ikya 43-year-old Business consultant and Economist, Terlulumun Ikya, is another very strong contender for the ticket. He started quite as early as a few others and has been vocal with his plans. Along with Terhemen, he could be considered if the stakeholders decide to consider the young aspirants. In Benue state, the incumbent Governor Samuel Ortom is the oldest to sit on the No.1 seat. According to sources, although Ikya is renowned as a technocrat, he is not much rated as a politician. Notwithstanding, he is in a good position to be considered for the APC guber ticket. Steven Lawani If APC zones the ticket to Zone C, the 74-year-old former deputy Governor of Benue State, would do little to win the ticket. A veteran politician, he is rated highly among the stakeholders far and wide. Chief Lawani is also reported to have a good relationship with Sen. George Akume. However, there are concerns about his age. There are also feelers that it could be politically costly for the party to cede its ticket to Idoma at the expense of the majority Tiv, especially after the rival PDP has picked its candidate from the Vandeikya local government area.