The Comptroller, Imo Command of the Nigeria Immigrations Service, Mr Okey Ezugwu, has advised officers of the service to always be of good conduct and guard against living above their means. Ezeugwu, who gave the advice at a retirement party organised in his honour by officers of the command in Owerri, said that living above one’s means could lead to misconduct. He urged them to improve themselves academically and on the job in the course of their service and plan for their living after retirement. He equally advised them to set high standards and endeavour to achieve the positive goals they set in order to accomplish much for themselves. The comptroller urged them to adopt acceptable standard practice expected of para military officers as well as shun irregularities and misconduct in the discharge of their duties. Ezeugwu noted that planning well while in service and maximising their resources would help them to avoid giving in to temptations when they found themselves under pressure. “Disclose your income to your family, it doesnt make you a weakling. “It will rather help you to manage undue expectations and ensure you achieve your goals within your means. “It is not every money thay you are offered that you must accept even when nothing is attached to it.   2023: I won’t take loan as President, says Jack-Rich     Pros, cons of office romance, should it affect productivity     Extra judicial killing alien to Islam – NASFAT   “Nothing good comes easy, try to plan ahead so you won’t find yourself under unnecessary pressure,” he said. The outgoing comptroller further urged them to aspire to be role models by doing what was right at all times regardless of who was affected. He also advised them against nepotism, tribalism and favouritism in service. Earlier, the Zonal Coordinator, NIS, Assistant Comptroller General (ACG) Evangeline Ejiogu, described Ezugwu as an achiever who accomplished a lot during his years of service. She applauded his efforts aimed at improving the command and also the officers for their support and cooperation. Mrs Ejiogu enjoined the officers to emulate Ezugwu as he had distinguished himself through commitment, exemplary service and hard work. In her remarks, the Passport Control Officer in Imo, ACI Helen Ford-Oti, congratulated the retiree for his “excellent service” to the command and for showing good example. The Deputy Comptroller of Immigration in the command, DCI Uchenna Onuoha, noted that Ezugwu had left a legacy worthy of emulation and commended him for an exemplary leadership.(NAN)