The firing of Gernot Rohr as the Super Eagles coach gave off some uproar in the country, but not as much as what came afterwards. It was bad enough that many thought the ex-Bordeaux manager performed poorly the task of shepherding Nigerian sports ambassadors to trophies. But after that, the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) did not seem to have its fortunes under lock as a new coach, former Eagles defender Austin Eguavoen, failed to fly as the team fell to the Black Stars of Ghana. It was one miscue after another. Nigeria had been licking its wounds when a big accounting weakness in the country football came to the fore. Rohr received a reprieve from world soccer body, FIFA – also known as the International Federation of Association Football. FIFA ruled that Rohr be paid the sum of N157 million as arrears the NFF did not pay him before he was knocked off the coaching chair. It may be justice for Rohr, but it was not decency. The man was not true to himself when he said it was not because of the money, or else he would not have collected the cash himself. It was about revenge, and he may not have taken the route of malice if he was not fired. Yet, the firing of the self-confessed Franco-German raises fundamental questions about how we run sports in this country. Rohr was signed to a contract, but the funding came from a private firm, Aiteo, because of what the NFF saw as the bureaucracy that kept the coaches in the past from receiving their money. We had instances in the past, including Clemens Westerhof, who took the country to Olympic gold. Things went well with Rohr before the COVID-19 era, and the coach, in spite of his uninspiring performance, received his entitlements upfront.   ASUU: strike without end     Not so fast     Death in the palace   But the bad times hit Aiteo, and the firm could not comply with its financial obligation as the pall of the pandemic ruptured its pocketbooks.  This led to a rescheduling of the contract, and the NFF arranged to pay, according to its leadership, its six-month salaries that should have ended in December. Apparently, not all of his obligations were covered, and hence the FIFA ruling that came with a deadline. The reason for Aiteo’s intervention must read as the company’s fulfilment of its social responsibility. For that it must be commended. But it covered Nigeria’s inability to meet budgetary obligations. If the NFF relied on the budget, according to analysts, Rohr might have been owed far more than FIFA ruled, and that would be because the system would have delayed his payment. So, outsourcing it was a sort of corporate rescue. He had FIFA to run to for help. Others, especially Nigerian players, have nowhere to seek salvation. The players that played for the last World Cup have yet to be paid. They are Nigerians, and they get justice but the justice of the damned. How are they going to handle the payment of the new coach entitlements? The Federal Government has now agreed to pay through an intervention fund in the sports ministry. We ask? If they can do so for the foreign coach, what of the Nigerians who are waiting for their own? It also shows how the delay of transforming budget to cash is often an excuse for wrongdoing. We have to learn to organise money for utility or else money will serve the wrong purpose and open our coffers to corrupt individuals. We hope that the sort of international embarrassment from Rohr would not repeat itself. Too many examples of how easy solutions often become tales of sweat and pain.