Glasgow Rangers midfielder Joe Aribo has played the second most games in world football this season, behind Liverpool’s Luis Diaz. Giovanni van Bronckhorst has put a huge amount of trust in Aribo to take the Ibrox club to the final of the Europa League, as well as the Scottish Cup. Rangers have had a gruelling season but show no signs of slowing up, and Aribo is no different as he embarks on the biggest month of his career. And a report by the Athletic highlights how much football Aribo has played when you take into account the games he has featured in for Nigeria. Their report reads: “Only Liverpool’s Luis Diaz (65) has played more games than Joe Aribo in world football this season, with Rangers’ Nigeria international midfielder notching 64 appearances for club and country. Fitness has not been a weakness.   NOC holds seminar for women in sports politics, management     Nigeria’s Watford quintet gets new coach     Rangers may not offload Aribo, others   “Indeed, it is felt within the group that it is in these hectic periods that they are at their best as the different challenge in Europe sharpens the mind. It may be why they struggled at the start of the season, and then again as they won only twice in the first five games after the winter break — a run that included a 3-0 derby loss to Celtic. “For all that this summer was expected to be the time many key figures in this team departed, this surprise run and the famous nights they have experienced at Ibrox over the past three months must play on the mind. “They have a chance to finish this season with two trophies — there’s a Scottish Cup final against Hearts to come three days after Seville — and go down in history as legends.” Aribo has had an outstanding season, earning praise from Barry Ferguson, who knows a thing or two about what it takes to dictate the Gers midfield. Now he needs two more big performances to help Rangers over the line in both their finals. As the report noted , if Aribo is part of winning teams on both occasions, they will become legends and it would be a stunning achievement which would go down in the history of Scottish football.