Guinness Nigeria, a subsidiary of Diageo Plc, has continued its growth trajectory, posting a revenue of N159.44 billion for its third quarter period ended  March 31, 2022, which represented a 39 per cent growth over the same period last year. Besides, the company reported a profit after tax of N15.28 billion in the period under review which represented a 731 per cent growth over the same period last year. The results show an impressive performance and a significant improvement when compared to the same period last year, a testament to  the commitment to meeting consumer demands as well as the company’s resilience in a challenging operating environment. Managing Director, Guinness Nigeria Plc, Mr. Baker Magunda said in the first nine months of its business year,  the company continued to grow on the back of the strong recovery in the first half of the year.   Algorithm Media launches data product     Union Bank posts N6.4b profit in first quarter     Firm unveils zero-interest financing for SMEs   “The business has delivered growth in the face of the challenging operating environment characterised by rising inflation and forex challenges in the three months ended 31 March 2022. Revenue grew by 39 per cent to N159.4 billion benefitting mainly from price increases across all brands, as well as from favorable brand mix and resilient consumer demand. “We have delivered revenue growth across all key categories driven by our strategic focus brands, Malta Guinness and Guinness, as well as strong growth in local and imported spirits and the ready-to-drink category. This has further shown that our strategy is sound, and we are unwavering in our commitment to ensuring our long-term competitiveness in Nigeria,” Magunda said. The statement stated that Gross Profit grew 76 per cent in the period as revenues grew ahead of cost of sales. Cost of sales increased by 24 per cent, largely due to inflationary pressure, sales volume growth, forex devaluation impacting imported materials, air freight cost increase and a shift towards more expensive can products. The company also noted that its marketing expenses increased 68 per cent versus last year as it increased its marketing investments. “We increased marketing investment to support our strategic growth priorities and the recovery of the on-trade. Distribution expenses also increased 36% driven by higher volumes, freight and diesel inflation and extended journey time for road transportation. All of our efforts delivered an operating profit growth of 200% to N22.9 billion.” Chair, Guinness Nigeria Plc, Dr. Omobola Johnson, also commending the impressive result. “The Board remains confident that our strategy is sound and will continue to support the management to build a business that will consistently deliver sustainable growth for all our stakeholders,” he added.