The National Youth Service Corps has cautioned drivers on its employment to adhere to approved speed limits, carry out necessary checks on their vehicles before driving. The scheme also warned the drivers to avoid alcoholic drinks, night journeys, among other risks. Director – General of the NYSC, Maj Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim, gave the warnings at a workshop organised for NYSC Drivers, with the theme; “The Driver’s Health Status: A Panacea for Accident Management and Control” held at the NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, Maitama, Abuja. In a statement by the NYSC Director of Press and Public Relations, Eddy Megwa, the director- general counseled the drivers to be conscious of their health and conditions of their vehicles at all times in order to ensure their safety and that of other road users. He said the physical and mental health of all drivers was very critical to their overall performance, adding that a healthy driver would drive well due to his alertness, as well as ability to process information for effective driving. The NYSC boss stated that in order to avoid fatal road accidents, all drivers must take their health seriously and adopt healthy lifestyles.   Orji Kalu denies plan to dump APC     Ijaw National Congress gives Wike 48 hours to release Dagogo     End strike now to avoid disaster, Udom tells FG, ASUU   He said road accidents have claimed many lives in recent times with some of the causative factors attributable to stress, sleep deprivation, fatigue, drunkenness, illness, bad eyesight, drug abuse, among others. The director-general said the management was committed to the enhancement of the welfare and efficiency of Staff, saying it would also intensify efforts aimed at safe driving among NYSC drivers. ”Apart from regular servicing of vehicles, we have accorded priority attention to the drivers’ health, especially through routine medical checks. Don’t joke with your health because you are very important to us and we cherish you. “Be very honest in your dealings and we don’t want to hear any case of misconduct from any of you. I am happy that the NYSC Staff are very wonderful people,” he said. Ibrahim advised the workshop participants who were drawn from all NYSC formations across the country to adhere to approved speed limits, carry out necessary checks on their vehicles before driving, avoid alcoholic drinks, night journeys, among other risks. The Director, General Services, Mr. Emannuel Attah said the promotion of healthy living at the workplace required a holistic approach involving both private and official lifestyles. He urged the workshop participants to use the benefits of the workshop to improve their personal health, lifestyles and attitude to work.