Former Governor of Plateau State, Joshua Dariye, and his counterpart, Jolly Nyame of Taraba State are yet to be released from Kuje Correctional Centre,  The Nation learnt yesterday. This is about two weeks after they were pardoned by the National Council of  States alongside 157 others. Dariye was said to have shed tears of joy on learning about his pardon. But the Federal Government is yet to send documents regarding their pardon to the Correctional authorities to enable them perfect the process for their release. On breaking the news of their pardon,  the ex-governors were said to have been thrown into excitement and appreciated the gesture of the Council. However, it was learnt that their high spirits were waning following the criticism that trailed their release from a cross-section of Nigerians and the slow pace of the process to perfect their release. Findings showed that the duo of Dariye and Nyame are still awaiting their release from the Kuje facility located at the Federal Capital  Territory,  Abuja, at the time of filing this report. Officials of the facility who confided in our Correspondent said only the lawyers of those pardoned would know details of the process for their pardon  and release from the prison facility. Dariye and Nyame were jailed for corruption charges by the Federal Government.   JAMB directs UTME candidates to start printing notification…     VAT: Appeal Court fixes hearing in FIRS, Rivers suit for May…     Eight killed as gunmen attack Anambra beer parlour, military…   They would be released from prison with 157 others who were pardoned by the Council of States following the acceptance of the government proposal. Speaking with The Nation on the matter,  the Public Relations Officer of the FCT  Command of the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS),  Humphrey Chukwuendo confirmed that ex-governors Dariye and Nyame are still in their custody. He said: “As of today we are yet to get letters to release them. It’s the Federal Government that will bring the letters. And once we receive the letters, they will be set free. The holidays may not affect their release because it is from the Federal Government. Group expresses disappointment over continued detention Meanwhile, a group, ‘Renaissance Group for Better Nigeria’ has expressed surprise and disappointment that weeks after the pardon, nothing has been done to effect their release. The group in a statement signed by its Chairman, Jonathan Ibrahim, said there should be no need for the delay since the pardon was granted by the highest decision making body in the country pointing out that the decision of the body is supposed to be acted on without much ado to avoid negative impression. “We are surprised that they are still being held and many Nigerians, especially their loved ones, are beginning to have the impression that they are still being held for certain political reasons which are not clear to many. “We are therefore calling on all relevant authorities, especially, the Ministry of Justice to do all that is required and necessary to facilitate their release to avoid unnecessary insinuation. More so their political associates and families are eager and anxiously waiting for their arrival.