Telecom subscribers have lamented extortion and inability to make calls on their phones even after enrolling in the National Data Base (NDB) of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) and getting their National Identity Number (NIN). Many of them who are small business owners are counting their losses to the April 4, 2022 Federal Government directive that operators restrict outgoing calls for subscribers whose Subscribers Identity Modules (SIMs) were not linked with their NINs. A shop owner in Ayobo, a Lagos suburb, who identified herself simply as Iya Philip, said she paid N2, 000 to do the registration about four weeks ago, lamenting that she hasn’t been able to make calls. “I am a single parent with three kids. I do buying and selling and I eke my living from the profit I make from my sales. Since I was barred from making calls, my sales have dipped. “About three or four weeks ago, I approached a registration centre in Ayobo; paid N2000. I got the print out and it contained my NIN. I sent it to my service provider to do the needful but sadly, I remained unbarred. So, I approached the operator and he asked me to pay N4000 if I wanted my validation expedited. He said I had to wait for four months to get validated by NIMC if I choose not to pay. That’s too much for me to pay, so I have remained in darkness,’’ she said. Another small business owner at Lafenwa, a sleepy community on the outskirts of Ogun State, Peter Njoku, said he sells electronics. “I did my enrollment the second week this wahala started. Though I have paid, I still cannot make calls. I was told my NIN has not been validated. “This is not fair at all. I was asked to go and bring more money accelerate the validation process. I see that as extortion because registration for NIN should be free in the first place,” he said. Over 72 million subscribers were affected by the directive of the Federal Government.   Challenges before PSB licencees     Investment in subsea cables to exceed $10b     Bundle: crypto flourishes despite hurdles   Operators say they are not responsible for the misfortunes of the likes of Iya Philip, Njoku and millions of others. Chairman, Association of Licensed Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ALTON), Gbenga Adebayo, said his members’ duty was to supply the subscriber information transmitted to the appropriate authorities for further action. He told his audience on NTA Morning Show that the other end was slow in doing the needful and apologised to the subscribers over the pains they are passing through. President, National Association of Telecoms Subscribers (NATCOM), Deolu Ogunbanjo accused officials enrolling people into the NDB of corruption. He said NIMC doesn’t seem to have the equipment to the exercise. As usual, text message sent to the spokesman of NIMC, Kayode Adegoke failed to elicit response as at press time. Over 80 million NINs have, so far been, generated. The figure was pushed up by the government directive. The largest operator, MTN Nigeria said 19 million of its affected subscribers were affected on that date of the implementation of the directive. “As at April 25, 2022, about 8.7 million of those restricted submitted their NINs for verification, of which approximately 1.2 million have been reactivated, many of whom are high-value customers. Outgoing voice revenue from the subscribers who are yet to be reactivated therefore contributed approximately 7.8 per cent of total service revenue based on FY 2021. “In terms of how general traffic trends have evolved since the implementation of the directive, we have seen a drop off in traffic following our compliance with the directive. However, we have started to see a gradual recovery as the affected subscribers are reconnected to resume voice calls. Data revenue has continued a steady increase but has currently not fully compensated for the decline in voice revenue of restricted subscribers. Encouragingly, we have seen an acceleration in new connections. “As MTN Nigeria, we continue to engage our affected subscribers while providing hardware support for the National Identity Management Commission to accelerate the verification of NINs submitted. We have taken significant steps to help drive NIN enrolment for subscribers who do not yet have a NIN, deploying over 4,200 points of enrolment across the country. We have also provided multiple channels to enable our customers to submit their NIN for verification and linkage,” the carrier had said through CEO Karl Toriola.