A Federal High Court in Abuja has declined the request by Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor Godwin Emefiele to restrain the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) from taking any steps against his interest pending the determination of his suit against them. Emefiele is, by the suit marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/610/2022 challenging the legality of Section 84(12) of the amended Electoral Act (EA) 2022 and to prevent its application to him in his aspiration to contest the next presidential election. The CBN Governor is of the opinion that he is not a political appointee within the contemplation of Section 84(12) of the EA, but a public officer, to which Section 137(g) of the Constitution (which requires the vacation of office 30 days before election) applies. He claimed, in a supporting affidavit, that INEC and the AGF “are making frantic efforts to disqualify the plaintiff from participating in the presidential primaries scheduled for May 30th and 1st June 2022.” On Monday, his lawyer, Mike Ozekhome (SAN) argued that in view of  the urgency of the case, the court should direct all relevant authorities to maintain status quo ante bellum (allow things to remain the way they were before the suit was filed) pending the determination of the suit. Ozekhome said: “By Wednesday, 11 May, 2022,  the timeline for collecting the form for  expression of interest will expire. “The timeline for the congresses and conventions of the political parties for the presidential election, which he is interested in, comes up on the 30 May. “The motion is seeking that the court should grant an order for maintenance of status quo. Let my lord not allow anybody to do anything,” Ozekhome said. Ruling, Justice Ahmed Mohammed declined to order the maintenance of status quo as prayed by Emefiele’s lawyer. Instead, Justice Mohammed ordered that the defendants be put on notice of the motion for them to respond by showing cause why the prayers sought by the plaintiff should not be granted.   Fayemi names Ekiti Civic centre after Awolowo     Wike, Peterside disagree on APC ticket     Police confirm abduction of Catholic priest in A’Ibom   The judge said: “Having listened to the learned senior advocate and having read the affidavit in support, an order is hereby made directing the defendants to appear on 12 May (12pm)  and show cause why the motion ex-parte seeking maintenance of status quo should not be granted by this court. “An order is made to serve the court processes on the defendants.” In the supporting affidavit deposed to by Maliki Sylvanus, a lawyer in Ozekhome’s law firm, it was stated that the suit was intended to seek the determination of the status of the plaintiff as the Governor of the CBN), who “desires to contest election as president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The defendants are making frantic efforts to disqualify the plaintiff from participating in the presidential primaries scheduled for May 30th and 1st June 2022. “There is the urgent need for this court to hear this suit and determine the rights of parties before the All Progressives Congress’ (APC’s) presidential primaries. “Except this suit is heard timeously, the plaintiff shall be wrongly disqualified from participating in the presidential primaries. Emefiele, who insisted that he is within his right as a citizen, to contest any party’s primary while still serving as the governor of the CBN, argued that since a Fedetal High Court in Umuahia has voided Section 84(12) of the EA, it remains nullified and no longer a valid enactment. He is praying the court for among others, “a declaration that by the combined provisions of section 84(3) of the Electoral Act, 2022, and section 137(g) of the Constitution, which require a public officer to resign, withdraw or retire from his employment at least 30 days before the presidential election, the plaintiff cannot be mandated and/or compelled to resign his position as the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria earlier than thirty (30) days to the presidential election or the primaries at congresses and conventions of the political parties which presidential election is scheduled to take place on 25 February, 2023; while the primaries are fixed for the 30th May and 1st June, 2022. *A declaration that the plaintiff can only be governed by or subject to the provisions of section 137(1) (g) and 318 of the Constitution, which require a public officer seeking election into a political office to resign, withdraw or retire from his appointment at least 30 days to the presidential election, rather than by the provisions of section 84(12) of the Electoral Act, 2022 or the guidelines, rules, criteria, measures or conditions made by the plaintiff’s political party or any political party. *A declaration that the plaintiff can validly participate in the primary ejection of a political party and is entitled to vote and be voted for as candidate of any political party of his choice for the purpose of the nomination of candidates for the election to the office of President or any other office under the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended). *An order that the plaintiff cannot be hindered, stopped or precluded from participating, voting or being voted for at the congress or convention of any political party of his choice for the purpose of the nomination of candidates for the election to the office of President or any other office under the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended). *An order of perpetual injunction restraining the defendants whether by themselves, their agents, servants or privies or any legal representative from hindering, stopping or precluding the plaintiff from participating, voting or being voted for at the congress or convention of any political party of his choice for the purpose of the nomination of candidates for the election to the office of President or any other office under the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended).