Arsenal transfer target Victor Osimhen said he hopes to stay at Napoli and improve under manager Luciano Spalletti. Osimhen’s impressive form at Napoli this season has seen him linked with several top clubs in the Premier League, while Spalletti’s future with the Partenopei is also in doubt after a banner demanding the coach leave was raised outside the club’s stadium. However, Nigeria forward Osimhen said he hopes both he and the ex-Inter coach stay at Napoli. “Spalletti is a top manager and, along with his staff, they really helped me to improve my movement,” Osimhen told Radio Kiss Kiss. “I hope to stay and continue on this road with the manager in the next few years.” Napoli came close to maintaining a title challenge this season and, even with seven matches remaining, appeared to be the form team among those fighting for the Scudetto. However, they won none of their next three matches to fall away. But earlier in the season lost Osimhen for two months with a fractured cheekbone and the 23-year-old’s absence also helped derail their campaign. “For a few months now, I’ve felt completely fine,” Osimhen said when asked about his injury. “The doctors tell me I can even go on the pitch without a mask. “I want to end the season as well as possible and can promise fans we will fight for the Scudetto next season.” Osimhen has scored 13 goals in 24 Serie A appearances for Napoli this campaign. Meanwhile, Napoli has set a 47 Billion naira (100 million Euros) price tag on the striker. According to Calciomercato.com, the Premier League is the most likely next destination should the Nigeria international ask to leave the Stadio Diego Armando Maradona with both Manchester United and Newcastle United interested in signing the 23-year-old.   CASH KINGS: Messi tops ten highest-paid athletes of 2022     Nigeria withdraws from int’l basketball competitions     Rich-list: Messi top athlete ahead of James, Ronaldo —…   According to reports to make Osimhen leave Italy, Newcastle United is set to offer him up to N4 billion (€9million) as salary per year and in January, the Magpies tried to sign him and double his current wage at Napoli. Osimhen was signed from LOSC in France for circa €75m plus bonuses in 2020, although the exact sum of money paid is believed to be closer to €55m, with several player exchanges included in the deal.