Just in the past few weeks, Google’s subsea Internet cable Equiano reached Lagos, Nigeria, while pan- African digital infrastructure provider Liquid Intelligent Technologies has inked a partnership with PEACE Cable Company to provide additional subsea Internet capacity in Mombasa. The developments are expected to have significant positive effects on African economies—the Equiano cable is expected to boost Nigeria’s GDP by $10.1 billion by 2025 and add 1.6 million jobs, while the Liquid-PEACE partnership will extend faster, more affordable internet to destinations from Angola to the DRC. Indeed, the widespread availability of fast and affordable internet will be the key to unlocking Africa’s next industrial revolution and turbocharging the continent’s economies. According to some estimates, the internet could be worth a whopping $712 billion by 2050 if the rollout is managed appropriately. There are a number of obstacles to overcome, however. For one thing, the connectivity just simply isn’t there yet and some of the high-profile initiatives to expand access cooked up by Western companies have fallen flat, while others have raised concerns that too much power will be concentrated in the hands of tech giants. Governance is another sticking point. Africa’s internet is being held back by overbearing organizations bungling the management of precious internet resources, as well as myopic governments introducing illogical taxes that deprive their most vulnerable subjects of online access. There is a bright future for a digitally-connected Africa, but there are a multitude of issues which must be addressed first. Connecting the continent Perhaps the biggest impediment to the African digital revolution is the absence of sufficient infrastructure. Internet penetration is just 40% on the continent and “moonshot” measures to address the issue have fallen short thus far. One such case is Google’s Loon project, which envisaged floating giant balloons in space to beam 4G down to the Earth. However, the idea was plagued by affordability issues from the outset, with many Africans unable to afford technology to access Loon’s network. Elon Musk’s Starlink venture has fared better, with some 1,700 satellites providing access to half a million terminals worldwide – though none are yet in Africa and the continent is not expected to be served until the end of next year. Even the success stories, like the Equiano cable and rival technology from Meta, come with a pinch of salt. Both ventures could prove to be huge steps forward in connecting Africa’s most remote communities – but both have raised concerns over the unprecedented amount of power that the two American behemoths will wield going forwards. An RIR unto themselves It’s not just tech giants who are suspected of holding outsized influence, either. AFRINIC, the regional internet registry (RIR) in charge of allocating Africa’s dwindling IPv4 addresses, has been embroiled in a lengthy list of scandals and accusations of late.   How To Engage In Online Games While Taking Care Of The…     What Is A Good Internet Speed For Gaming And How To Boost…     5 Steps To Make A Personal Budget In 2022   After weathering a race row in 2016 and a sexual harassment court case in 2018, the body’s reputation suffered another massive blow the following year when it emerged that AFRINIC’s co-founder Ernest Byaruhanga had embezzled up to $50 million in IP addresses. CEO Eddy Kayihura vowed to hold all guilty parties accountable and clean up the organization’s act. Unfortunately, his approach appears to have been overly heavy-handed, with AFRINIC even threatening national governments with the “draconian” revocation of their IP quotas for perceived oppressive measures. All the while, the internal machinations of the RIR do not seem to have improved, either, with the current board president Subramanian Moonesamy apparently maneuvering to cement his control by extending some members’ terms. Prospective candidates have referred to the board elections process as “not neutral”; a member of the community called it “election fraud” and a dissenting board member described the boardroom wrangling as a “coup” that was “totally against the internal and external legal advice received by the Board”. Counterproductive taxes compounding issues Elsewhere, national governments’ eagerness to monetize their citizens’ access to the internet has thrown another spanner into the continent’s journey towards connectivity. For example, Uganda attempted to deepen its tax income by introducing a levy on social media subscriptions in 2018, leading to an immediate 35% drop-off in usage and an uptick in VPN deployments. Similar initiatives introduced in Kenya, Nigeria, South Africa and Tanzania have precipitated the same outcomes, with tax revenues reduced rather than increased and usage suffering as a result. One particularly eye-catching measure in Benin saw a social media tax drive up the price of 1GB of data by 250%. Those measures might be well-intentioned, but by targeting the users instead of the suppliers and failing to differentiate between the economic circumstances of their citizens, governments are sidelining the poorest and neediest parts of society. Tremendous benefits almost within reach Although the scale of those challenges might seem dishearteningly insurmountable, the potential benefits of improving African internet access and governance are even more sizable. According to a recent report from the International Finance Corporation (IFC), every 10% increase in mobile connectivity would yield a corresponding 2.5% hike in GDP per capita, reaching a maximum of $712 billion by 2050. Meanwhile, achieving an internet penetration rate of 75% would see the creation of 44 million job; for a continent that’s currently home to 690,000 developers, that would represent a huge step forward. Given that the African population is expected to swell from 1.3 billion today to 2.5 billion by 2050, it’s imperative that this increasingly sizable portion of the global populace is not neglected when it comes to ensuring access to fast, affordable and reliable internet. The enthusiasm is certainly there from the investor community, with the half a billion raised in the first half of 2020 alone greater than any annual sum preceding it. However, there is a real danger that this potential will be wasted if greater regulation is not introduced to control hubristic organizations like AFRINIC and prevent tech giants like Google and Meta from monopolizing the lucrative African market. Policymakers must take care to address these issues, building a regulatory framework that allows Africa to fully take advantage of the digital revolution.