The Supreme Court has dismissed the appeal by former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, against the decision by Governor Nyesom Wike to set up a commission of inquiry to probe some transactions during his tenure as the state’s governor. In a judgment yesterday, a five-member panel of the apex court led by Justice Olukayode Ariwoola, while dismissing the appeal marked SC/911/2017, held that the assignment of the commission of inquiry was not to investigate Amaechi in person, and as such it was not about his person. In the lead judgment prepared by Justice Emmanuel Agim but read by Justice Adamu Jauro, the court said: “The gist of this decision is to the effect that the commission of inquiry was to investigate some transactions, hence no one was on trial, hence the issue of denial of fair hearing therefore, does not arise.” The court awarded N1 million cost against the appellant. Amaechi, while reacting to the judgment, said the apex court’s pronouncement further vindicated his stance that the investigation by the commission ought not to be portrayed as personal to him because he was not on trial. His position is contained in a statement by the media office of the presidential aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC), which reads: “Nigeria’s apex court today ruled on the appeal filed by Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi against the Rivers State Government on the Justice Omereji Judicial Commission of Inquiry. “The Supreme Court in dismissing the appeal, however, pronounced that the function of the Judicial Commission of Inquiry was mere investigative, that nobody, neither Amaechi nor anyone else, was on trial before the panel. “The Supreme Court ruling clearly vindicates the former Governor of Rivers State. The apex court was categorical and clear that Amaechi was not on trial. The implication of this is that any indictment from the Commission is null and void and cannot stand. “With this judgment, Amaechi has been vindicated and cleared him of all purported or alleged indictment by the Governor Wike’s Commission. “It has been further settled that the decisions/recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry and subsequent White Paper issued by the State Government is not a conviction or indictment and cannot stand. “From the onset, it was obvious to any discerning mind that the Commission was set up to embarrass, denigrate and humiliate Amaechi. “The apex court’s judgment today further buttressed this stance. A commission purportedly set up to investigate past financial transactions was actually a commission to personally witch-hunt Amaechi.” Wike had, shortly after assuming office in 2015, constituted the Justice George Omeregi-led judicial commission of inquiry to probe the alleged sale of state assets by the immediate past administration led by Amaechi. Amaechi challenged the decision of the governor at High Court of Rivers State in a suit marked: PHC/187/15. In a judgment on August 20, 2015 Justice Simeon Amadi held among others that that the judicial commission of inquiry was not established to investigate the personal activities of the former governor, but set up to investigate the previous actions of the government as they affect the people of Rivers State.   Alimikhena withdraws from Edo senatorial race, dumps APC     Akure lawmaker loses re-election bid as thugs snatch ballot…     Okorocha to EFCC: drop charges against me   On appeal, the Court of Appeal also expressed similar view, which was also reflected in the judgment of the Supreme Court yesterday. N96bn fraud: Rivers leaders will meet to decide fate of Amaechi, Cole, others, says Wike Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, said yesterday that the state’s leaders would meet to decide whether to commence criminal prosecution of the former Minister of Transport, Chibuike Amaechi, over the alleged fraudulent sales of some valued Rivers assets and diversion of state funds. The governor said that others whose fate would be decided during the meeting include Mr. Tonye Cole, Sahara Energy Ltd and former Rivers State Commissioner for Transport, George Tolofari. Wike in a statement signed by his Special Assistant, Media, Kelvin Ebiri, after the Supreme Court judgment that dismissed Amaechi’s appeal to frustrate investigation into the activities of his administration, said the judgment had vindicated the Rivers State Government. He explained that upon his assumption of office in 2015, the state government set up a judicial panel of inquiry to investigate the activities of Amaechi, a former governor of Rivers State. The judicial panel was mandated to investigate the sale of the 150 Mega Watts gas turbine in Omoku, Afam 360 MW Gas Turbine, Trans-Amadi 136 MW Gas Turbine and the 75 MW Gas turbine in Eleme; monorail project; the sale of Olympia Hotel and non-execution of the contract for the construction of Justice Karibi-Whyte Hospital after the Amaechi administration paid $39.2 million to the contractor. Wike said the judicial panel at the end of its investigation submitted its report and recommendations to the state government, prompting the state to come up with a White Paper Report. He said: “So many people were indicted by that report and so we didn’t go to court to file charges against those that were indicted because some people went to court, particularly, the former governor, Rotimi Amaechi. And as those who obey the rule of law and have respect for court, we said we will not take any step further until the court decides. “At the State High Court, the Rivers State Government won. The former governor went to the Court of Appeal, the Rivers State Government won. And then he appealed to the Supreme Court to set aside the recommendations of the Judicial Panel of Inquiry and the White Paper of the government. “To the glory of God, the Supreme Court unanimously dismissed his appeal against the judicial panel of inquiry report and the government White Paper Report.” Wike said the state government had been vindicated by the Supreme Court judgment because those who were indicted by the Judicial Panel of Inquiry were given the opportunity to defend themselves but some of them chose not to appear before the panel. He said: “If you see that report, as a Rivers man, you will cry. Nobody who loves Rivers State will see that report and will not cry. “Now that the Supreme Court has come up with their judgment, the leaders of the state will decide what next step to take. It is not for only me. Yes, I am a governor, I can’t do it alone. If the leaders of the state say we must prosecute them, I have no choice. “The money that was collected by Sahara Energy and Tonye Cole, it is for the leaders of the state to say. Should we go ahead and file charges against Rotimi Amaechi and his cohorts or should we allow it to be? It is for the state elders. “The state will meet and agree on what next to do. But the point is let the world know that nobody would see that report and not be angry.” The Rivers State governor narrated how the sum of $50 million was diverted from the state account and paid to Sahara Energy for inexplicable reason. He said there was no evidence of any transaction indicating that the state was indebted to the company. He said: “What did Sahara Energy do for us? What is the transaction that we paid $50 million for? You said Sahara Energy bought our gas turbines. If they bought our gas turbines, why are we paying them $50 million? Did we borrow money from them? And where is the agreement to show we borrowed money from them? Nothing.”