Leon Balogun has been through the difficult times and endured the dark days during a career of highs and lows for club and country. Now the defender stands just 90 minutes away from the ultimate achievement as Rangers target European glory and a place in the history books. The stars have aligned for Balogun and he could add Europa League and Scottish Cup medals to the Premiership title he won during his first term at Ibrox less than two years after leaving Wigan Athletic. Initially signed as a replacement for the injured Nikola Katic, Balogun has gone on to establish himself as a mainstay of the Rangers squad under Steven Gerrard and Giovanni van Bronckhorst. “It is just unbelievable,” Balogun told Glasgow Times. “Firstly, it is something that we are incredibly proud of. “I have had difficult periods in my career, I had no club for a certain period of time. I made it back to the Bundesliga after really just kicking my own behind. “I had a loan spell at Wigan and then I came to this massive club. We won the league in my first season.   Okpekpe Race: Yasin Haji, Chebet to lead world-class elite…     NFF hails Idowu on Maracana Stadium in Lagos     NFF to screen more applicants for Eagles   “To then get to the Europa League final? I don’t have the words. I am going to have to let it sink in. “With the sad news that we received at the beginning of the week, it makes it that bit more special. “I will let it sink in for a few days. But I am incredibly happy, I am incredibly proud. I am happy for every Ranger out there because I think that’s what we deserve as a club, as a family, and I am proud to be part of that.” It will be an emotional end to a unique season as history awaits the Light Blues and Balogun knows how significant success would be for a range of reasons at Ibrox. “Yeah, we have two finals,” Balogun said. “We couldn’t really ask for too much more. I think we have to just take that in. “We have the chance to win the Europa League. There were loads of things going on before the game, obviously the sad news about Jimmy Bell. That makes the win that much more special. “Everybody is just really, really excited. It is an incredibly proud moment for everybody connected to this club. “That is what everybody connected to this club deserves. We worked hard for it, it wasn’t an easy game. But I think we made the most out of it with the help as usual of our incredible support.”