Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has said the only fair deal in 2023 is to allow the south to produce the successor to President Muhammadu Buhari. He tipped the Southwest as the “top-notch” in the South to pick the slot. The governor, who was accompanied by a large crowd, including members of the Lagos Governance Advisory Council (GAC), State Executive Council and party executives, traditional rulers, All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains, political associates and supporters, The  governor addressed reporters after submitting his expression of interest and nomination forms at the International Conference Centre (ICC) yesterday in Abuja He said his administration had delivered real dividends of democracy in all facets of life in the state, hence his bidding for the second term.   UNILORIN students to Fed Govt: resolve ASUU issues or no…     Suspense as NEC rules on zoning of PDP ticket Wednesday     Uncertainty in APC over Jonathan, Emefiele, Adesina   Asked whether the southern presidency is visible in 2023, Sanwo-Olu said: “I think we believe so (southern presidency) and I think that’s what is fair, that is what is just. But it is really about Nigeria. There are aspirations everywhere and there are so many qualified people, but for equity and fairness we have in our country, I think is just morally fair that it goes to that part and Southwest is top-notch in that. We believe that our positions from those meetings are still very valid and everybody must consider.” On the May 6 meeting of APC presidential aspirants from the Southwest in Lagos, the governor said: “You should have asked what was the objective? Did we achieve the objective of that meeting? The answer is yes. We needed to have ourselves in the room, lock up ourselves and have frank conversation, which was exactly what we did. Are we going to have further conversation with the leadership? Yes, I believe so. So we are not fed up, we were sincere with ourselves and we hope that in future engagement all the aspirations we have in our region will come to pass.” Asked whether he was confident of getting a second term mandate, Sanwo-Olu said: “So, our confidence is premised on the fact that we’ve received tremendous support from the people of Lagos and we have been opportune to put in place a robust economic agenda that has propelled all of the various interventions we have in Lagos. “In fact, if I start rolling them here, we will be here till tomorrow, but in all phases of life, we have touched our citizens; in transportation, in education, in health, in housing, in good governance, in provision of basic amenities but more importantly, in security for our people. “Lagos will continue to remain in our view as the safest city. We have grown the city from what it used to be three to four years ago before we took over. Now it receives the highest foreign direct investments because the environment is safe and secure. We have provided the platform for the organised private sector to thrive. “Mind you, Lagos also during this period was the epicentre for COVID-19. For about a year and a half we were slowed down, but did not slow down economy. It gives us the opportunity to redouble our efforts in all the areas that we have talked about. In fact COVID-19 propelled us to even have better health facilities as we speak today. People have seen our sincerity and real dividends of democracy in all facets of life.”