Students in Ilorin yesterday  gathered at the entrance gate of the University of Ilorin (UNILORIN) in protest against the three-month extension of the prolonged strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). Armed operatives, including men of the Nigeria Police Force and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps were stationed at the university gate. The students displayed placards and banners, calling on the Federal Government to intervene in the crisis. Other students who were not physically present at the protest ground also created a virtual protest with the hashtag #IlorinProtest on social media platforms, especially Twitter. Royal Prince, a student of UNILORIN on Twitter said: “This is painful, I spent four years on 200lvl and 300lvl and I’m yet to enter 400lvl. All we are saying is end ASUU strike now and forever. “This is a peaceful warning protest, if after the next meeting there’s no productive response from both parties; we’ll have a mass action.” The students displayed banners with inscriptions such as ‘Stop jeopardising our career’, ‘Education is not a luxury, it is basic human right’, ‘We are tired of ASUU strike’ and ‘I am a hanging graduate’, among others. The protesters expressed their grievances via a peaceful protest at the main campus of the institution. They threatened not have anything to do with the general election if the strike was not called off.   Suspense as NEC rules on zoning of PDP ticket Wednesday     Uncertainty in APC over Jonathan, Emefiele, Adesina     INEC rejects parties request for adjustment of polls…   The students, in their large number during the protest, said that they planned to take the protest to major places such as the Government House, roads linking Ilorin Airport, State House of Assembly, federal secretariat, Police headquarters, Directorate of State Security Services (DSS), among other places, if the meeting between the lecturers’ union and the Federal Government did not resolve the lingering crisis this week. Appearing forlorn, the protesting students lamented their continued stay at home due to the strike. They called on the Federal Government to meet ASUU demands to enable them complete their academic activities. Speaking with reporters, President of the Unilorin Students Union Government (SUG), Taofik Waliu, said the protest was aimed at creating awareness among stakeholders and the public over their sadness on the lingering ASUU strike, stressing that, “we are tired”. “We want to graduate. The Federal Government should listen to ASUU demands. We don’t plan to move around town today. We hope that soon ASUU strike will be a thing of the past whereby hanging graduate can graduate and hanging 300 Level students can move up and so on. However, if nothing fruitful comes out after the meeting of the Federal Government and ASUU this week, we will move en masse continuously with other students of 10 educational institutions in the state to block roads to various places in the state capital, to register our displeasure over the lingering ASUU strike. “This is just to send message to government that we are tired and they should listen to ASUU demands”. The state Chairman of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Salman Yusuf Yisa, called on governors to intervene, saying the issue is beyond the federal government. “Our house rents had lapsed. Landlords have issued quit notices to many of us. Many 100 Level students are yet to know their fate, yet JAMB is still conducting exams for new admission seekers. We want an end to this persistent strike. If by next week we don’t see an end to this strike, Nigerians will not find it easy. It’s going to be tough and massive,” he said. Students of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) and other students in Osun State are mobilising for a mass action slated for tomorrow. On social media, fliers indicating the proposed mass action have been trending. Students are expected to gather at the OAU gate. Also, students of Imo State University (IMSU) will protest today.