The political aphorism, “All politics is local” was popularised by Thomas P. O’Neill, the highly celebrated Speaker of the United States House of Representatives from 1977 to 1987. Although the statement is rooted in American politics, it has universal applicability. Historical, geographical, religious, and ethnic considerations dominate the “local” dimensions of Nigerian politics. More recently, demographic (“Not too young to run” and “Too old to run”) and gender considerations have also featured prominently. In varying degrees, these considerations are at play in the ongoing presidential politics in both the ruling All Progressives Congress and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party. Power rotation between the North and the South was developed to cushion the effects of these local considerations. The historical foundation of the APC puts additional pressure on the party to respect power rotation in 2023. In the run-up to the formation of the APC in 2013, the Action Congress of Nigeria, chaired by Chief Bisi Akande and led by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, was the legacy party with the biggest political clout in the merger: The ACN had as many State Governors as the other legacy political parties put together—ACN 6; ANPP 3; APGA 2; and CPC 1. With the presidential candidate coming fro CPC in 2015, in recognition of then General Muhammadu Buhari’s mass following in the North, the Vice Presidential slot went to the ACN in recognition of its political capital and contributions. It is expected that the geography of power would swing to the Southwest in 2023 in recognition of the ACN’s firm roots in the zone and its immense contributions to APC’s successes in two consecutive presidential election cycles. This expectation was boosted by the zoning of the party chairmanship to the North. This was expected to pave the way for the presidential candidate to come from the South, particularly the Southwest, the bastion of the APC in the three Southern states. But a different scenario seems to be playing out now. The Hausa-Fulani dominated North, which has been in control of government for about seven years and the party machinery for nearly two years, is vacillating on zoning. As recently as last Friday, April 29, 2022, the party Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, insisted that the party had yet to decide on which of the six zones would produce the party’s presidential candidate for 2023. To be sure, his statement did not rule out zoning the position to the South. What appears to be in doubt is whether it would be zoned to the Southwest. This doubt is fueled by three significant developments. One is the reported courting of former President Goodluck Jonathan of the PDP by some leaders of the APC, who were looking for a Southern candidate that would do only one term so the position could quickly rotate to the North. Another variation of this development is the reported pressure on the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, to run for President under the APC banner. Neither man is from the Southwest.   Retirees to Oyetola: borrow N50b to offset our pension     EU to ban Russian oil     Nigeria-Morocco gas pipeline: OPEC, Russia show interest   While the above development still has the undertone of zoning the presidency to the South, the other two developments are totally against zoning. In an interview granted to the BBC Hausa Service on July 28, 2020, President Muhammadu Buhari’s nephew, Malam Mamman Daura, outrightly jettisoned zoning, by arguing that the position of President “should be for the most competent and not for someone who comes from somewhere”. Now, fast forward to the recent position of the Northern Elders Forum, which advocates open contest for the presidential ticket rather than zoning it to a particular part of the country. According to the Forum’s convener, Professor Ango Abdullahi as recently as Thursday, April 28, 2022, “The issue of zoning or power shift is dead and buried. Candidates should be allowed to contest election on the basis of merit or their competence and not where they come from”. There is an unmistakable similarity to Daura’s position nearly two years earlier. There is yet another contributory factor to APC’s vacillation on zoning. There are reports that the party may follow the PDP in throwing its presidential ticket open for contest across the country or wait for the outcome of the PDP’s presidential primary before deciding on its own zoning formula! It is speculated that the APC may decide to zone its own presidential ticket to the North if the PDP eventually picks a Northern candidate. It is better to assume that none of the above positions reflects the official position of the APC party leadership except the statement by Chairman Adamu that an official position on zoning has yet to be taken. Even at that, the party has not lived to expectation. Respect for party members and the Nigerian electorate requires that decisions regarding the presidential ticket be timely, firm, and just. Why was it easy for the party leadership to decide on a N100 million nomination fee but could not at the same time decide on zoning the presidential ticket, even after party positions had been zoned at the convention? Why would the party leadership discountenance the call by Southern Governors in both political parties for zoning the presidential ticket to the South? Why would the party leadership give the impression that it is about to betray the South in general and the Southwest in particular, by reneging on the established understanding of power rotation? Does the leadership of the APC ever realise that trampling on equity, justice, and fair-play could lead the party to lose the presidential election? This is a case in which a stitch in time could save nine. To complicate matters for the APC in the Southwest, what seemed to be the ideal of presenting only one presidential aspirant from the zone has been breached. After one aspirant traversed the zone and consulted throughout the country for three months, three more aspirants from the same zone have indicated interest in the APC presidential ticket. One has so declared, while other two plan to do so in a day or two. Could the intention of these late entrants be to spoil the chances of the front runner, by splitting delegate votes? The answer to this question is neither here no there, because it is the right of every frontline politician to aspire to be President. However, such selfish interest should be seriously weighed against the overall interest of the Southwest. This is where party leaders should be alive to their gate-keeping role in the choice of a presidential candidate.