There’s no art to find the mind’s construction in the face – Shakespeare Looks can be deceptive. If not, Nigerians would have seen through Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor Godwin Emefiele and the game he is playing in the countdown to next year’s presidential contest. Emefiele does not look like the typical rambunctious politician. Drab and dry, he carries himself like the banker he is. Now, the banker wants to switch job, but does not know how to go about it. Some of his faceless friends have been mounting a media campaign for him to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari, who is leaving office in 2023. As the nation’s number one banker by virtue of his position as CBN boss, Emefiele cannot take part in partisan politics. He is free to hold political views, but he cannot publicly express them to avoid being seen as supportive of one party or the other. Most especially, he cannot afford to be linked to the ruling party, which though appointed him, he is not in anyway beholden to, as CBN governor. The office Emefiele occupies carries a high price. He is under watch and every move he makes is subject to interpretation. This is why central bank chiefs all over the world tread gingerly. They work with politicians but they cannot mix their work with politics. For them, politics and work are not mutually inclusive. They must forgo one for the other. Emefiele is not ready to do that. He wants to have his cake and eat it. He cannot. He has to choose one. Whichever he chooses, he will still be serving the nation. But he must be honest with the nation and let the people know where he stands on 2023. His disclaimer of those goading him to run is weak. The way he is handling the matter shows that he is either involved in the shenanigan or he is enjoying it. Emefiele never spoke officially on this serious issue since the campaign to draft him into the 2023 race began until his beloved rice farmers got the expression of interest and presidential nomination forms of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for him. If he were honest with himself, his office and the country, he would have since moved to stop those jesters long before they got the forms for him for N100 million! Since our country is a nation of anything goes,  Emefiele and his co-travellers in government interested in becoming president have been having their way while sitting pretty in office. The President is keeping quiet because he is the one encouraging all of them to run. I do not see the sense in telling everybody who comes to you whether or not they have what it takes to do the job to join the race. Even those not interested in the race, the President is said to have told them to go and contest. At what point will he stop coopting people into the race? By the time the number reaches 100 since they are buying the forms for N100 million! Even if the President so advises, an individual is not bound by the advice, if he knows he cannot do the job. The least these individuals can do is to say: ‘Mr President, thank you for the advice’ and take their leave.   All for a ticket!     The Jonathan bubble     The almighty Section 84 (12)   But, it is convenient for them to use the President’s name to mask their ambitions. Emefiele’s foot soldiers have repeatedly described him as the man for the job and he seems to believe them despite disowning them in a series of tweets after they bought him the nomination forms. He did not say he would run or not. He left that decision for God. “This is a serious decision that requires God’s Divine intervention: in the next few days, the Almighty will so direct”, Emefiele said. How did he know that God will ‘direct’ him in the next few days. Was that from God? Emefiele has unwittingly revealed where he stands. His tweets said more than he intended. His intention was to douse the fire over the speculations about his ambition, but he ended up stoking it. If he is not interested in running, he should have simply said so because of the short time left for parties’ primaries and the general elections. He did not do that. With his tweets, he compounded the whole matter. But for the discerning, who can read between the lines, Emefiele should not drag God into the matter since it seems he wants to run. It is his personal decision to run and he should take responsibility for it and not bring God into it. Did he register, as reported in the media, as an APC member in his ward after communing with God? If that was case, what is he going back to God for? Is his registration not a sign of divine blessing or better still, anointing for him to join the presidential race? But, wait for this. The same man, who said he was waiting on God, rushed to court to seek an order that he should be allowed to remain in office while pursuing his presidential dream. Why bring God into the matter since he had gone to court to test the waters? Is this the kind of president the nation needs in 2023 – sly, cunny and untrustworthy? The answer is capital NO. Emefiele ought to know that as CBN governor, there are certain boundaries that he cannot cross. If he crosses them, he loses his job. But, he wants to enjoy the best of two worlds by remaining in office and contesting for the presidential ticket of APC. His calculation is that if he fails in his bid, he will retain his seat at CBN. Fa! Fa!! Fa!!! Fa!!!! Foul!!!!! A CBN governor is expected to be non-partisan, even though he is not apolitical. He can only vote, if he wishes, during elections, but cannot be on the ballot. For him to be on the ballot, he has to quit his job. Emefiele is not ready to do that, yet he wants to be president. His reported registration as an APC member should be investigated to ascertain when he actually did so. It would be understandable if he registered before he became CBN governor. But if he did so after he took office, he has breached the code of conduct, which stipulates that occupants of that office cannot be card-carrying members of any party so as to avoid a conflict of interest. Those calling on him to resign and face politics, his new found love, are on track. It is annoying to have a sitting CBN boss not only involved in politics, but also showing interest in being president on the platform of the ruling APC, which is one of the parties taking part in the 2023 elections. This is not fair to the other parties and the system. Emefiele should not keep his job a day longer if he cannot publicly disavow interest in the 2023 presidential election today. He should not take God’s name in vain.