All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders and presidential aspirants from the South West emerged from a meeting in Lagos last night with a resolution to ensure that the geo-political zone produces Nigeria’s next president in 2023. They also affirmed the right of every one of the contenders to pursue his ambition, but advised the gladiators to eschew acrimony and abuse in the build-up to this month’s primaries. By the close of work at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja yesterday, the number of APC’s presidential aspirants had risen to 22 after Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor Godwin Emefiele, former House of Representatives Speaker Dimeji Lawal, immediate past Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun, Science, Technology and Innovation Minister Ogbonnaya Onu, former Zamfara State Governor Sani Yerima and Senator Ajayi Boroffice bought their own expression of interest and nomination forms. Each set of forms goes for N100 million. Many of the aspirants purchased the forms through proxies. It was gathered yesterday that more aspirants might join the queue in due course. Yesterday’s meeting of APC South West leaders was convened by former Osun State Governor Bisi Akande and his Ogun counterpart Aremo Olusegun Osoba to douse the anxiety generated by the growing number of aspirants from the same political family and background.  In attendance were APC National Leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Senator Ibikunle Amosu, and Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi, all of who have purchased their expression of interest and nomination forms for the presidential primaries. The meeting, which took place at the Lagos State House, Marina, also attracted House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila, APC National Secretary Senator Iyiola Omisore, Southwest APC leader Isaacs Kekemeke, Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his Ondo, Ogun and Osun counterparts Rotimi Akeredolu, Dapo Abiodun, and Gboyega Oyetola. Others were Interior Minister Rauf Aregbesola, his Trade and Investment counterpart Otunba Niyi Adebayo, Works and Housing Minister Babatunde Fashola, former Ogun State Governor Gbenga Daniel and former Oyo State deputy governors Iyiola Oladokun and Alake Adeyemo. A source close to the conveners said the meeting was successful. He said: “They (aspirants) freely expressed themselves. They spoke their minds. It was agreed that they were free to pursue their ambitions. But the leaders emphasised the commitment to the emergence of the next APC presidential candidate from the Southwest.” The source added: “The aspirants were admonished to pursue their legitimate interests without abusing one another. They called for decorum. “It was also agreed that the aspirants should meet regularly to review events and situations. Contrary to feelings in some places, the meeting was not convened to make aspirants withdraw from the race.” 22 aspirants buy forms The APC National Organising Secretary, Sulaiman Mohammed Argungu, confirmed yesterday that 22 presidential aspirants had bought the presidential forms so far. He put the figures for governorship nomination form purchases at 105,262 for senatorial nomination forms and 936 for House of Representatives aspirants. Although party sources said yesterday that the growing interest among chieftains of the party to buy the presidential nomination forms might be in response to the financial need of the ruling party ahead of the 2023 general elections, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Chairman Abdulrasheed Bawa revealed that the agency was investigating sources of monies used by politicians to buy their nomination forms. Onu, speaking in Abuja yesterday on his aspiration, said he has the key to unlock the prosperity of the country through a knowledge economy driven by science, technology and innovation. No nation, he said, has ever become truly great without the efficient and effective deployment of science, technology and innovation to nation building “I am convinced that I have the knowledge, the experience, the credibility, the education having been trained in one of the best universities in the world, the vision, the integrity, maturity and a man who can be trusted,” he added. Yerima visited President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday to brief him on his ambition and told reporters afterward that security, poverty alleviation and education would receive his utmost attention if elected as president. Asked if his introduction of Sharia during his tenure as Zamfara State governor would not count against him in the presidential race, he answered in the negative. His words: “On the issue of Shari’a, I’m a Muslim and I say everywhere I go, that I am a Muslim and I want to die as a Muslim. “Like I said, I’m going to fight the problem of ignorance, and this is one of it. People don’t know, a lot of people don’t know that the Constitution of Nigeria, Section 38, provides for freedom of religion, including freedom to change your religion, if you want to, to practise alone or in community with others, in private or in public. “As governor of the state, I followed the constitutional provision, prepared a law, sent it to state assembly and they passed it into law and I implemented what the Constitution of Nigeria has given me the powers to do. “Even in Zamfara State, I never, never required, asked or forced any Christian to follow the Islamic faith because I would have done an unconstitutional act. “If I’m elected, by the grace of God, I’m going to take an oath to protect and defend the Constitution of Nigeria. So, I will never do anything unconstitutional.” Former Zamfara State Governor Mahmuda Aliyu Shinkafi led the delegation that bought Bankole’s form. Former deputy governors’ forum endorses Tinubu The Forum of Former Deputy Governors of Nigeria (FFDGN) yesterday expressed support for the presidential aspiration of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. National Chairman of the Forum and former deputy governor of Edo State, Lucky Imasuen, said former deputy governors elected on the platform of the party were enthusiastic to work with and for the success of the former Lagos State governor at the presidential primaries and the general elections. He spoke at a meeting with the presidential hopeful in Abuja on Thursday night. Calling for the support of the forum, Asiwaju Tinubu promised to address the economic and security challenges facing the country when elected as the president.   Gemade, Hembe, Ikya, Fr. Alia, others pick governorship…     Niger saves N200m from ghost pensioners – Sani-Bello     Bagudu: Screening for cervical cancer doesn’t take away…   He acknowledged inadequacies in the reward system of the APC and promised a drastic improvement if elected. He said: “Many of you I know, and you have participated in governance and political activities. You have given value to your various states. When we merged as one and took the broom as the symbol of the party, the broom has a lot of meaning. “Let me first of all address our element of the constitution. I promise to look into that if elected.  Our reward system as APC is very poor, and it was late before I could recognise that. Let me assure you, I won’t repeat that mistake if I’m elected.” He enjoined the former deputy governors to ensure unity within the APC in their various states, and to ensure success for the party in the forthcoming elections, starting with the Osun and Ekiti state governorship elections. Why contest is attracting unprecedented number of aspirants – Party sources Following continued criticism of the increasing number of presidential aspirants seeking the APC ticket and the huge costs of its expression of interest and nomination forms, party sources said yesterday that the development might be in response to the financial need of the ruling party ahead of the 2023 general elections. Sources said it might also be that some of the aspirants are making strategic plans for the post- election period. Informed party source told The Nation that many of the presidential aspirants who have obtained the forms are simply trying to support the party financially by coming forward with their N100 million. It was gathered that besides about four of the aspirants who have actually been going round the states of the federation to canvass for delegates’ support, the others may merely be helping to prepare the party for the financial demands ahead. Mentioned as the serious aspirants who will go all the way in the race when the chips are finally down are the National Leader of the party Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Transportation Minister Chibuike Amaechi and Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State. “Unlike the former ruling party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the APC will not use state resources to fund elections,” a former national officer of the party said. He added: “What you are seeing is an unspoken fund drive by party chieftains in preparation for the 2023 general elections. As loyal and dedicated party leaders, they understand the immediate need of the party and that’s what they are making available. “During the 2019 general elections, it was a difficult task as the party had to struggle to raise funds. I can say this because I was in office then as a Zonal Chairman. “To avoid the difficulties experienced then in 2023, party leaders have found a way of assisting the ruling party to meet the financial demands of the primaries.” The Nation also gathered that Buhari had on several occasions tasked the leadership of the APC to define methods of raising funds needed to prosecute elections. It was also gathered that the new National Chairman, Senator Abdulahi Adamu, on taking office, had sought the support of leading chieftains of the party, particularly current and former governors, ranking National Assembly members, ministers and other prominent chieftains of the party, for his fund raising plans ahead of the 2023 general elections. Another top member of the party described the high number of presidential aspirants as a “smart way of raising the huge amount of money needed to prosecute the primaries without running foul of the laws of the land as individuals and as a political party. “It is obvious that what is going on in the APC is fund raising,” he said. Another source said: “There is no way someone who dropped such an amount of money will not be a stakeholder to consult when the victory song is to be sung. And when it is time to share the spoils of war, they will be considered. Don’t be surprised when they start stepping down before the primary elections.” Bawa: EFCC investigating funds used to buy nomination forms Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Chairman Abdulrasheed Bawa said yesterday that the agency was probing the sources of the funds used to buy nomination forms  by aspirants ahead of the primaries. “When it comes to the issue of monitoring election funds as well as candidates’ funds, that has to do with the work of INEC in this regard. But, of course, we are working hand in gloves with INEC and other related agencies in that field to ensure that we follow the money, we know the source, whether it is legitimate or illegitimate, because that is what concerns us,” Bawa said on Channels Television. Continuing, he said: “You know that we are concerned about good governance. We are concerned about transparency, accountability. We are also concerned about ensuring that corrupt elements are not given leadership positions in this country. “That is one of the things we are working behind the scene to ensure that at least we make our positions known on some certain actors within the political space in this country.” Voluntary withdrawal forms violate constitution, Electoral Act, expert tells APC A former chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and International Constitutional Law expert, Livingstone Wechie, has told the APC leadership to reverse its issuance of voluntary withdrawal forms to its presidential aspirants. Wechie described the action of the APC leadership as a contravention of the provisions of the 1999 Nigerian Constitution as amended, the APC Constitution and the Electoral Act. He said: “It is not acceptable that the All Progressives Congress (APC) should be allowed to continue to blazingly engage in constitutional somersaults with impunity. “The recent so-called voluntary withdrawal forms attached to the expression of interest and nomination form is an absolute stranger and illegal to Nigeria’s political system. “That form has no constitutionality with respect to Nigeria’s 1999 Constitution, the APC Constitution and the Electoral Act. That form is in absolute violation of all the legal frameworks that govern Nigeria’s electro-political system and it must be stopped at this point. “It is more worrisome because that purported form is a tool aimed at imposition, coercive and arbitrary hand-picking of candidates against the will of other aspirants who are left without a choice all in the name of party supremacy. “If the Party has sold form at outrageously questionable figures, why will a person be forced to sign to forfeit his or her rights without following a fair constitutional process? FG bars civil servants from primaries The Federal Government has warned civil servants to steer clear of the forthcoming primary elections of the parties. Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Dr. Folashade Esan, in a May 5, 2022 circular entitled ‘Clarification on the provision of public service vis-avis the Supreme Court judgment as it relates to participation of civil servant in partisan politics’, warned civil servants to be “guided by the provisions of PSR (Public Service Rules) and the legal opinion of the Honourable Attorney-General of the Federation/Minister of Justice on the subject.” The Attorney General had, in a November 26, 2018 letter with Ref. No. SGF/PS/HCSF/210/11 said: “Neither the 1999 Constitution nor the Supreme Court has authorised civil servants to engage in partisan politics. “The provisions of Rules 030422 and 030423 of the Public Service Rules (2008 Edition) were not nullified by the Supreme Court, hence, they remain in force and binding on all civil servants seeking to participate in nomination exercises or party primaries.”