The Confederation of African Football (CAF)  has defended its choice of Morocco  for the final of this year’s TotalEnergies Champions League Final CAF, yesterday, said it  received a letter from the Egyptian Ministry of Youth and Sports referring to the request by the Egyptian Football Association (EFA) and Al Ahly SC for a neutral venue of the TotalEnergies CAF Champions Final. The continental  soccer body  said it  appreciated  and fully understood  the complaints and concerns raised by Al Ahly SC and the EFA  but was committed to the principles of fairness, justice and equality of all clubs and member associations. However, CAF was obligated to adhere to and implement the decision that was taken by the previous CAF leadership in July 2019, which was that the TotalEnergies Champions League final would be a one-leg final rather than the usual two-legged home and away final. Furthermore, CAF noted  it was  bounded by the CAF and FIFA rules which do not allow competition rules to be changed once the competition has started.   Schreuder  succeeds Ten Hag at  Ajax     Man United captain Maguire secretly  marries partner     Spurs hammer  Gunners to boost  fourth place hope   Morocco and Senegal were the only countries that fulfilled the host country bid criteria, after CAF requested its 54 member associations to submit bids to host the TotalEnergies CAF Champions League one-leg final. Egypt did not submit a bid. South Africa and Nigeria submitted documents expressing an interest to host the TotalEnergies CAF Champions League but did not fulfil the host country bidding criteria. Egypt did submit a bid to host the TotalEnergies CAF Confederation Cup Final but did not fulfil the host country bidding criteria. CAF subsequently awarded the TotalEnergies CAF Champions League final to Morocco, after Senegal withdrew its bid. As previously stated, there are currently discussions underway within CAF to revert to the old two-legged home and away final to determine the winner of the TotalEnergies CAF Champions League, rather than the one-leg final.