At least two reasons emerged from an arrested gun-runner as to why the terror war in the country has lingered. One is the fact that it has become an industry from where some military officers and civilians make a lot of illicit money. The other, though related somewhat to the first, is that collusion would almost be impossible without the involvement of some soldiers and other security agents. A 30-year-old suspect, Shehu Alli Kachalla, arrested by troops of the Federal Intelligence Investigation Bureau in Gussau, the Zamfara State capital, said a military personnel usually gives him cover at security checkpoints to enable him deliver arms to criminals in their hideouts. He said he had sold 450 rifles and 8,000 live ammunition to different criminal gangs in Zamfara, Kaduna and Niger states. Kachalla, a Nigerien citizen, has been importing weapons from Niger Republic in the last three years. It is significant that some other arrests had been made before Kachalla’s. On June 8, last year, a syndicate allegedly supplying drugs, bread and other food items to bandits operating in Zaria, Kaduna State, and its environs was smashed by operatives of the FIB Intelligence Response Team (FIB-IRT) at the Rigachikun base in Kaduna, after supplying bread to the bandits in their hideout in the forest. But the job of supplying arms to terrorists is not for minions alone. This, at least, was what the arrest of another alleged supplier of arms to them revealed. Musa Mohammed Kamarawa, 33, who was arrested in February shocked Nigerians when he disclosed how he bought a N28.5million gun truck for the notorious bandit leader in Sokoto State, Bello Turji, his childhood friend. Kamarawa said he had brought sophisticated weapons into Nigeria on many occasions. Many other arrests had been made. It is intriguing that the arms and food suppliers know that their customers are bandits but they feign ignorance of collusion with them. We do not believe this, though. What rather seems credible is that economic considerations trounce other considerations in the transactions.   On the many candidates vying for presidency     Deaths at workplace     PDP presidential aspirant sues party, INEC over N40m…   Indeed, one of the questions that hitherto bothered Nigerians is how terrorists are able to sneak in arms into the country without being detected by the customs and immigration and other officials. But the confessions of some of these terrorism suspects have provided answers to some of these lingering questions. One is that the motivation to remain in business is high for all the people involved. For instance, Kachalla said he developed interest in the illicit business due to the high profit. According to him, he sells a rifle for between N600,000 and N1million,  depending on the make, and realises about N300,000  on each rifle sold. This is aside the profit he makes from selling ammunition which he said he sold for N1,100 each. Also, an alleged member of the syndicate smashed on June 8, last year, told interrogators that he made about N150,000 weekly from supplying bread to the bandits adding that this rose sharply to about N70,000 daily, following the abduction of some students of Greenfield University in Kaduna by bandits. We can therefore see the motivation at both ends. It is obvious that while the bandits have access to regular supply of critical supplies like food, arms and other items, the suppliers too are happy that they are able to make money without hawking in search of ever dwindling customers. We can also see the mutual benefit to both parties when large numbers of people are abducted. But it is not only the suppliers and bandits that smile to the banks. Their security agents’ collaborators do too. From what is known so far, their  networks involve military and political elites working in collaboration. Although Kachalla said his illicit activities had been facilitated by a military officer, one person cannot do this alone. Of course, we also have top military officers involved in arms contract who are similarly making a kill by inflating contract costs or simply pocketing money for the purchase of arms. Good enough, some of them have been jailed. It would appear that the information in the public domain about the networking of the bandits, their sponsors and suppliers as well as their security agents and political elite collaborators is enough to nip banditry in the bud. But one critical element that seems to be missing is the political will to deal decisively with the situation. The Federal Government must be ready and willing to smash the networks providing oxygen for these criminals. It must also be ready to provide the needed resources, including arms and ammunition, to prosecute the war, as well as adequately motivate the officers and men in the security agencies. Stories of inadequate care of soldiers, which we feel would be far more than have been made public, are, to say the least, disturbing. The government must also ensure adequate cover for the country’s  official and unofficial borders as well as engage local communities with a view to securing their support in the terror war. In the final analysis, it is the government’s resolve to end banditry that is perhaps the most important elixir needed to facilitate an end to the security challenge. It is sad that the government on its own volition promised to name and prosecute terrorism sponsors and is yet to do that more than one year after. We do not see the sense in keeping secret the identities of people who are publicly and senselessly shedding the blood of innocent people. Above all, the government must address the socio-economic and socio-cultural dimensions of the insurgency.