Hon. Abiodun Akinlade, a former three-term member of the House of Representatives and current Ogun State’s representative on the board of the Federal Character Commission, is an aspirant for the Ogun West Senatorial District seat in the 2023 general election on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).  In this interview with ‘Dare Odufowokan, Assistant Editor, the Owode-Yewa, Ogun State born politician argues that the people of the senatorial district are determined to make the right choices at the next poll. According to him, money and godfatherism will no longer be the deciding factors. Excerpts. THERE’S serious anxiety over the struggle for the Ogun West Senatorial seat largely because of the calibre of contestants . . . None of my co-contenders know Ogun West as much as I do. In the National Assembly, House of Representatives where I was, I knew the weakness and lapses of where I’m coming from in Ogun-West; we lack a lot of things and that was why I was so passionate when I was in the House of Representatives to go extra miles in getting things done for my people. I left the House of Reps about seven years ago and by the glory of God, about two people came after me and they have not been able to match the record I have set just because of my passion. I believe if I have another opportunity in the Senate, which is a step higher than the House of Reps, I’ll do more for my people. When I was in the House of Reps, I cover only two local governments and I believe if I get to the Senate, I would have the opportunity of covering the whole of Ogun-West Senatorial District. I believe my impact, my knowledge and everything I have, is needed to take Ogun-West to the next level. I believe it is only when I get to the Senate that the general people of Ogun-West can have a feel of the stuff I’m made of. Do you see yourself defeating the many heavyweights currently in the race for the seat given the prevailing factors in Ogun West politics? I don’t like talking much about individuals but I enjoy issues based debates. Let me say this clearly, in Ogun West, we know ourselves. We know where we are coming from and we know our background. And that is why I always don’t want to respond to questions that have to do with particular individuals because we know ourselves and that is the truth. On the issue of matching somebody, I just want to say one thing and that is why we are here, we should move away from money politics. We are talking about issue-based campaign. Someone is coming from Lagos and wants to come to Ogun-West with 20 years experience as a parliamentarian. He should come out and tell us his achievements. I like talking about people like that. With all the advantageous positions he has occupied, he should come and show us the scorecard, and his record of achievements where he is coming from. If you believe you are the best, you must have your records. I said it openly today again, we should leave money out of this because we are not poor in Ogun-West and you can’t buy anybody’s conscience in Ogun-West. In Ogun-West, people know me and the stuff I’m made of. They are not asking me for money. They have this belief that I’m tested and trusted and what they are looking for is in me. I don’t have the backing of anybody. The backing we should be looking for today is the backing of the Almighty God and the back of my people. They will bring their money and my people will collect their money and my people will not vote for them because they know that I have been with them from the beginning. So, I believe and trust that my people will give me that mandate to represent them. With the tension being generated by this election, what are the conditions that you think would guarantee a free and fair senatorial election in Ogun-West? I think the leaders of our party are looking into that and those of us that are true sons of the soil, we know ourselves and we don’t want any crisis in our area because that is where we were born and that is where we reside. So, we will ensure that we do everything humanly possible to protect the people, the properties and everything in this area. I want us to know that those of us that are genuine sons and daughters of this place that are in this race will talk to ourselves very soon and will come to a result that is acceptable to all and sundry. People are talking about direct, indirect or consensus primary? It is whatever the party comes up with that we have to agree with. You know when the National Assembly tried to compel the parties to go for direct primaries only, it was thrown out again. And in the constitution of our party, all the options are there. If the party decides to use direct primary tomorrow, they may decide to use indirect and they may also decide to use consensus. So, whichever they use, I, as a party member, I have no choice but to go the line of their option. But any decision they make at the end of the day will still go in line with me. For years, Yewa people have been accused of not working in unity. And perhaps has been denied many opportunities as a result of this. What is your take on this?   Malami’s ambition and the Kebbi fleet     May 28: Battle of comeback kings     PYO’s impact assessment   The issue of unity is normal. People have even accused us that we have not been able to produce the governor of the state because there is no unity in Ogun-West, I will say yes and no because this is the kind of things we are talking about when you allow an outsider to come and dictate what happens inside. And that outsider may not have the genuine interest of the people and zone’s parochial interest and that is what we have today. People are coming from outside to come and destroy or disrupt the relative peace we have in Ogun-West today and we will not allow them to do that this time around. Yes, it will look to outsiders that there is no unity in Ogun-West but we know that we will not allow them to destroy our collective heritage. I have been hearing of 2027 and people of little faith who do not know the thinking and working of Almighty God are making plans. We are still in 2022 and people are thinking of 2027. When you look at the history of those that got to that position in our state, it is not about power or anything. For example, Dapo Abiodun came on board three or four months before the primaries and today he is the governor of the state while some people have been planning to be governor for some years. It depends on what God has ordained and as a Muslim, I believe one thing that it is only Almighty God that can make give power. It is not jus for us to think or plan to be something, but what is germane to me now is the Senate, which I believe if given the opportunity to go to the senate now, I would address a lot of inadequacies that we have in Ogun-west today. I want to leave the issue of 2027 to the people that believe they have the power to determine what will happen in 2027. What is your relationship with the governor and his political camp? Governor Dapo Abiodun. I’m very close to him and I pity him as a governor, when you look at issues not only in Ogun-West but in all the three senatorial districts, the House of Assembly, Reps and the Senate and everybody is talking about how they believe that they have the ears and eyes of the governor. I, in particular, believe that if the governor is given the opportunity to choose, he would not look left or right, he would just choose me because he knows what I can do. I was elected into the House of Reps in 2011 under the platform of Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and I also ran for governorship with Senator Amosun in 2011 under ACN. I said this to you, I also run for governorship under APC in 2019 and I’m also the deputy DG campaign of APC to Dapo Abiodun in 2019. So, I’m the landlord of APC in Ogun-West. Every other aspirant met me in Ogun APC as a member and chieftain. So, I cannot be afraid of my house and my leader because of some people. We have been together for a long time. I was the deputy Director-General of the Dapo Abiodun Campaign Organisation. And interestingly, the office, I’m occupying today in the Federal Character Commission, the Governor of Ogun State nominated me to be the Ogun State representative. For him to have given it to me tells you the kind of relationship that exists between me and the governor. We have a very good relationship and I’m also thinking and looking forward to his second term. So, I am not scared that they can use the governor against me. The more the merrier. They are all welcome so far he or she is a true son of the soil. All of us will meet and talk about it. There will not be an issue with that. Whether in Amosun’s camp or Dapo Abiodun’s camp, as of today we have only one APC. Even those in Amosun’s camp, the Allied People’s Movement (APM), have collapsed that structure into APC, which makes Dipo Abiodun the leader of the party in Ogun State. Even the serving Senator today is in another camp but it is under the leadership of Prince Abiodun. How confident are you that your party, the APC will win the general election in Ogun West? I make bold to say, with all humility of course, that I am the senatorial aspirant to beat in Ogun West District. And with me as the candidate, APC is sure of victory because that is what the people are waiting for. Like I told you, the majority of our constituents are rooting for my candidature in recognition of my past legislative and empowerment activities as well as the many people-oriented projects I have facilitated across Yewaland and even beyond. When I was in the House of Representatives, I discovered that in Ogun West, we still have a long way to go towards development. Our district lacks many amenities. I left in 2015, I worked hard to cover a lot of grounds but there is still a lot to be done. That is why I am in the senatorial race today. I have tried to be governor before.  I believe that if I am a senator, I will be able to cover wider areas. As I have tied explaining to you earlier, I never knew I would contest for the Senate when I facilitated the projects in many places outside my constituency. You can now understand why I said we are determined to get to the senate. It is because we are determined to do more for the people. Ogun West needs a man who understands the task to be done and who is ready to go the extra mile to get it done. We are ready for any form of primary the party would want us to go through and I am sure that anyone they agree on will favour me. We need to come together as a team in Ogun West. I will not rest on his oars of facilitating capital projects, job security, empowerments and regular engagement of my people among others. When I declared my intention to vie for the Senate Seat of the Ogun West Senatorial District today, I did that on the strength of my capacity, competence and antecedence in terms of projects facilitation, job security, empowerment and regular engagement of my people.