As part of efforts to deepen the crusade of hope and better Nigeria being canvased by a group loyal to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu; the South West Agenda for Asiwaju 2023, (SWAGA ’23) yesterday launched its Affiliate; NORTH CENTRAL AGENDA for ASIWAJU 2023 (NCA) in Kwara State. The auspicious ceremony in the state will span three days, in both morning and afternoon sessions. Asiwaju Tinubu, a National leader in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and frontline Presidential aspirant, was Governor of Lagos State between 1999 and 2007. SWAGA had travelled across the South West and now has established in other parts of the country, being the first group to root for the Tinubu’s Presidential ambition before the APC National leader eventually made the public pronouncement. In a statement signed by Hon. ‘Bosun Oladele (MHR) National Secretary of SWAGA’23 and made available to the media on behalf of SWAGA through Hon. Rotimi Makinde, the group would accordingly launch the Kwara Chapter in less than 48 hours in the state. The terse statement read in full:“SWAGA’23 Inaugurates Kwara State Chapter In continuation of our activities round the country, Kwara State Chapter of SWAGA’23 will be Inaugurated as follows: 1. Sunday 15th May 2022- Arrival in Ilorin   Division in PDP over 2023 polls     Who will PDP pick as flag bearer?     Ekiti APC senatorial aspirant decries high of nomination…   2. Monday 16th May, 2022 visits to some traditional rulers in the State. 3. Tuesday 17th May 2022. Inauguration at Ilorin Kindly make arrangements as usual to be in Ilorin for the events. Signed: Hon. ‘Bosun Oladele MHR National Secretary.” In the team are the Chairman, Senator Dayo Adeyeye, Senator Adesoji Akanbi (Deputy Chairman) Hon. Oyetunde Ojo, Hon. Ayo Omidiran, Hon. Ifedayo Abegunde, Apostle Oloruntoba Oke and Hon Mukaila Musa and the NCA North Central Coordinator, Alhaji Ibrahim Raji among Others. Reacting to the official launch in Kwara, Chairman of SWAGA Senator Dayo Adeyeye said: “SWAGA is now an household name, a movement that has taken over the entire Nigeria’s political space. As you can see our affiliate here is the NORTH CENTRAL AGENDA for ASIWAJU 2023. If All Progressives Congress (APC) conducts any primary for presidency today, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu will win, he is a man with capability, a man who doesn’t forget his people and who has made many leaders from among his subordinates I must reiterate that SWAGA’23/NCA is the right way to go. “They said it is indirect primary that the party will adopt to choose its Presidential flagbearer, that makes us happy. If it is indirect too. Asiwaju is ready. No one can rig anything. We understand grassroots politicking. “Naysayers and mischievous people have now accepted that Asiwaju has strong home base. And that is very true. He has a strong home base indeed. “We have visited over 300 Obas (traditional rulers) and they have prayed and blessed Asiwaju. People and other groups across the country have keyed into this agenda. And I can tell you that, we already have over 14 million votes in our pocket,” he said