Wife of the governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, has urged women to reject the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and Peoples Democratic Party (SDP) in the June 18 election. Mrs. Fayemi said the SDP and PDP should not be allowed to form the next government because they are ‘bereft of developmental policies and programmes that can uplift women politically, socially, economically and educationally’. She called on the women to support the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Biodun Oyebanji, saying there would be improvement in their lives if he elected the governor. The First Lady spoke yesterday in Ado Ekiti during a rally organised by ‘Ekiti Women in Politics’ to mobilise support for Oyebanji.   Ekiti PDP warns against rigging     Ini Edo campaigns against violence     Lagos begins crackdown on Okada June 1   Mrs. Fayemi, who applauded her husband for being a women-friendly governor, said voting for the opposition would reverse the gains and positive impacts the APC had brought towards the development of women. She added: “Our government, under Governor Fayemi, has done a lot for women. But my mind is at rest that Mrs. Olayemi Oyebanji, just like I have done, will protect and prevent Ekiti women from oppression. This is the least we can do for you. “For this to be actualised, come out on June 18 and vote for Biodun Oyebanji. This election is a must win for APC for the sake of Ekiti women. Don’t fight, be focused in this campaign and deal with issues that will promote our candidate. Before Fayemi came, our women were marginalised in politics. But, today, we have provided opportunities for a lot of them. We gave them business opportunities, supportted their education, gave them appointments from the state to the ward levels, and even at the party level.” Deputy Governorship candidate Mrs. Monisade Afuye said some of the positions being savoured by women under the present government could have been illusive, but for Mrs. Fayemi’s persistence and steadfastness. “Go out and mobilise your women counterparts to vote for APC. Go to all the nooks and crannies and preach the gospel of good governance that APC represents in Ekiti,” she added.