Gov. Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State has vowed to fish out perpetrators of communal clashes which resulted to the lost of lives and destruction of properties at Gudum Hausawa community in the outskirts of Bauchi metropolis. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the state government earlier confirmed that three persons lost their lives, many injured and houses torched in the April 26 disturbances in the area. Mohammed, in a Sallah message, on Monday, warned that the perpetrators of the crisis would be dealt with in accordance with the law, adding that some of them had been arrested. He enjoined the Muslim faithful to uphold the lessons of Ramadan towards solving personal, communal and national problems. This, he said, would further deepen personal discipline, family values, love of one another and personal relationship with God. While congratulating the Muslim faithful on the occasion of this year’s Eid-el-Fitr, Mohammed said that the Ramadan fas was observed amidst grueling social, economic, political and security challenges besetting the nation. He noted that this year’s Eid is therefore highly significant.   PSC advocates recruitment of 20,000 Police Constables…     Two more bodies recovered from collapsed building     Obaseki increases minimum wage to N40,000   “While the Eid should be marked by the usual fanfare and merriment, the more enduring positive impact should be demonstrated in our utterances and actions. “In the way we relate with Allah (SWT), our fellow Muslim faithful, adherents of other faith, and our willingness to emulate Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) by sacrificing for others, particularly the less privileged in our society. “As a government, we will not relent in our drive to ensure continuous peaceful coexistence among the heterogeneous ethnic and religious groups in the state. “I appeal for your continued understanding, cooperation and support towards the realisation of this noble objective. “Let me reassure you that we are mindful of the economic difficulties being experienced by the people of the state, which is a national problem. “While the government is doing everything possible to ameliorate the situation through various strategies such as targeted empowerment, massive infrastructural development, creation of an investment-friendly environment and capacity building. “I urge you to see it as a temporary setback,” he said. (NAN)