Actress Ireti Doyle has recounted how colleague Adesua Etomi Wellington stood up to bullies bothering her daughter. The actress said that her daughter Jemi had just changed schools and won the position of students council just within months. This move, according to the actress, was unacceptable by students she met in the new school, a development she said attracted a lot of bullies until Adesua stepped in. Upon realising that Jemi is an acquaintance of the famous Adesua, she said their attitude towards her changed for the better. Doyle thanked the actress for standing up for her daughter. “NOT SO RANDOM STORY Sooo sisi kekere (can I still refer to her like that?) had just transferred to a new school having spent her entire academic career up to that point in one place. “It took a whole summer of convincing, but I finally caved in – do not underestimate @jemiyodoyle once she’s set her mind on a thing.   Why I’m no longer friendly with Liquorose-Maria     Singer Omah Lay models Tu Face’s, wife’s love…     Reactions as Tems smokes at US vacation   “Anyways, she arrives, bright and bubbly, eager to take on new territory and blossom, which she did. Within months of arriving she vied for and won a position on the students Council. “Apparently that’s not allowed. “You cannot just arrive here and begin to “shine” without “permission”. “Oh the bullying was aggressive! And most of the time, she would beg me not to step in, determined to make her own way. “Anyways Mrs. Wellington heard about the goings on and said “Auntie, I’m going to go pick Jem from school one day”… I said OK. “On said day, she asked me to sit in the car. It took longer than usual… @adesuaetomi didn’t just “pick” her from school…she took her time to stroll round the school compound with her arm around Jemiyo, waving at the students who had become dumbstruck. The message was clear : “This is my Beloved, thou shall not touch”. Suffice to say the bullying died down significantly from that day – true star power. “Jem has kolobied many of my friends, who have poured into her…some for a season, for some, just a brush…you have no idea how powerful just one brush from the right person is in molding a young mind. It truly takes a village…the 3 people captured here represent mine. “To everyone who has ever touched Jems life positively…THANK YOU I also want to thank the multitude of my online village too, for your warm wishes and prayers…Omo a ye gbogbo wa, a o ni se ti, ni oruko Jesu!!!