Actress Ifu Ennanda has claimed the cloth she wore to the African Magic Viewers Choice Award (AMVCA) ceremony at the weekend was worth not less than $100,000. She lambasted those who criticised her cloth to the ceremony, a skull filled black dress to the distaste of most netizens who came hard on her. The reality star claimed that she was styled by one of the best hands in the industry, Toyin Lawani. According to her: “First of all, I want to thank everyone who saw and understood the creativity and beauty in my AMVCA Transformer Look last night. “Now to those Cret!ns who wrote crap about my Look or intentionally posted my Look just to bash me, here’s what I have to say;   Omoni Oboli, touts at war over movie production     Audition for BBNaija Season 7 begins     Celebrities that split after engagement   “1) My entire look is worth over 100k USD… Yes you read that right! So if you don’t have a minimum of 10k USD in a domiciliary account, you have no right to speak on my Look. Basically, stay away from criticising my outfit if you’re broke a$s. “2) My Look was designed and styled by the King of Fashion @tiannahsplacempire , a woman who’s well ahead of her time and dominates in a country where people think only simple basic red carpet dresses deserve to be called “Best Dressed”, so, if you’ve never crossed the border, in fact if you’ve never gone beyond African Countries, if all you know about advanced countries is what you see on Africa Magic, DO NOT SPEAK ON MY DRESS “3) Lastly, I am not one to please anyone, I always mind my business and I always do what I want because I really don’t give a fuqq about most people. “I wanted to scatter everywhere and so far, I think I did just that, so if your existence hasn’t shook the internet at any point in your miserabLe life, if all you do is sit in a god for s@kn cubicle and hate on how people choose to live their lives, DO NOT SPEAK ON MY DRESS “The mission was not to win best Dressed, but to bring the Met Gala to AMVCA and I DID JUST THAT.”