Senator Uba Sani (Kaduna Central) has emerged as the consensus candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the forthcoming gubernatorial race in the State. The Nation gathered Sani emerged during an extensive meeting of the party leadership chaired by Governor Nasir El-Rufai on Wednesday. It was also gathered the former Chief of Staff to Governor El-Rufai, Muhammad Sani Abdulllahi, who recently resigned as Commissioner of Planning and Budget to contest the governorship race, has been prevailed on by the Governor to step down for Senator Sani. The former Budget Commissioner, who was believed to be the initial anointed candidate of the Governor, has however agreed to settle for Kaduna Central senatorial seat. Muhammed Sani Abdullahi, aka Dattijo, who picked the governorship form on Wednesday, confirmed his withdrawal from the governorship race. According to Dattijo: “At a meeting on Wednesday, the Governor directed that we rally round Senator Uba Sani for the governorship seat. He has asked that I pick up the form for the Senatorial seat for Kaduna Central.   Ogun assembly passes resolution to prune revenue agents     Buhari lauds Umahi on quality projects in Ebonyi     Onitsha becoming ‘dead’ city, Soludo laments   “While this outcome is not what we have planned or hoped for, we have accepted it as Allah SWT’s will who provides to whom he wishes, when he wishes. Therefore we have entrusted our future to Him and prayed the State and the Nation will have the best of leaders in 2023. “I remain grateful for Mallam’s mentorship and for your unwavering support, which I do not take for granted. I had earlier purchased the APC Governorship form but will be picking up the Senate form as directed inshaAllah. “I hope we can continue to work together for the success of the APC in all elections. Your support is not taken for granted and will always be remembered and appreciated. Allah ya bar zumunci.” Senator Sani and Dattijo are the major governorship aspirants in the APC with grassroots supporters. While Senator Sani’s supporters bask in euphoria of joy on social media that he emerged as a consensus governorship candidate, Datijo’s supporters wished him success in his bid to represent Kaduna central. However, while members of the Governor’s kitchen cabinet had accepted the party’s decision, it is unclear if other aspirants such as the Managing Director of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) Bashir Jamo and former chairman of the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria,”(NAHCON), Abdullahi Mukhtar and Hon Muhammad Sani Shaaban will accept the decision.