Supporters of the various council chairmen-elect on Friday took to the streets of Abuja to protest the suspension of the swearing in ceremony scheduled for Friday. The chairmen and councillors’ terms in office elapsed on Thursday with the newly-elected officials were supposed to be sworn in on Friday. But the FCT Minister, Muhammad Bello, cited a court judgement and extended the officials’ tenure by one year. Displeased by the extension, residents in the Gwagwalada Area Council took to the streets. The residents, who barricaded the roads and made bonfires, demanded reversal of the decision. The protesters, who later stormed the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) Secretariat at Area 11, tried to force their way through to the Minister’s office but the security personnel prevented them from invading the premises. They chanted: “FCT Minister, you must swear them in” while bearing placards with various inscriptions like “FCT Minister, we know you obey the law swear in as enshrined in the constitution.   Osinbajo visits Imo, says ‘there’s a lot to be…     Eight women die in Kogi road accident     BREAKING: Dane sentenced to death for killing wife, daughter   “You were sworn in with the old electoral act, the new Chairmen should be sworn in with the new electoral act”, etc. They also ensured that activities at the FCTA Secretariat were grounded as staff were neither allowed to gain entrance nor exit the premises. At the moment, the FCT Minister and the Minister of State are out of the country. The protesters insisted by one of the Ministers must address them.. The FCT Minister on Thursday suspended the planned inauguration of the Six Area Council Chairmen billed for today. The youths, who commended the decision of the chairman of Gwagwalada area council, Mustapha Danze, to vacate his office at the expiration of his tenure, urged the remaining five to do so before the end on Friday. Speaking on behalf of the protesters, Ahmadu Yusuf vowed that the original inhabitants will also begin picketing the six area council Secretariat from Monday the 23rd of May. Addressing the angry youths on behalf of the FCT Minister, the FCTA Permanent Secretary, Olusade Adesola, appealed to them to sheath their swords and allow the court process to take its course. He noted that the FCT Administration had appealed the judgment and hoped that the correct position of the law will be determined by the legal processes.