The Federal Government has started using funds in the Unclaimed Dividends Trust Fund to finance its budget deficit. The initial estimate placed the size of the Fund at N850 billion, but the size varies according to new deposits and withdrawals. A source at the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning told The Nation yesterday that contrary to certain official posturing, the Federal Government had started drawing from the unclaimed dividends to fund the budget deficit. The source said the government had withdrawn from the trust fund in 2021 to finance the year’s budget deficit. The is being managed by the Debt Management Office (DMO) and the Accountant-General of the Federation. The trust fund contains a backlog of unclaimed dividends and monies from dormant accounts. Director General, DMO, Ms. Patience Oniha, said the trust fund is “still work in progress”. Director-General, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Mallam Lamido Yuguda, said “there is an Unclaimed Dividends Trust Fund at the moment and it has a framework whereby dividends that have not been claimed over a certain period are transferred to this Fund”. “It will be utilised in line with the investment objectives of that Trust Fund. “However, if anybody comes forward at any given time to claim their unclaimed dividends, this Fund will be able to repay these dividends without any problems,” Yuguda said. He confirmed that there were a lot of developments around the trust fund being managed by DMO. He said people have also been drawing their claims from the trust fund. “There are a lot of people who are getting their unclaimed dividends paid to them from the Trust Fund and we will not immediately have the information,” Yuguda said.   Ex-ALGON chair obtains nomination, expression of interest…     ASUU mulls strike extension, protests in cities     Atiku: I have experience to tackle insecurity   He noted that with the introduction of the electronic dividend system, “a lot of people have been able to get back their dividends”. “You know the Nigerian capital market is a very big market and every year companies declare dividends and Nigerian investors benefit from it. “Some people are not coming forward to get their dividends because they have not mandated their accounts. “We have cases of multiple subscriptions which the Commission has made a lot of efforts to resolve,” Yuguda said. The attempts by shareholders to access their funds from the Unclaimed Dividends Trust Fund notwithstanding, Yuguda said there is a large pool of money in the Fund because many shareholders are yet to “mandate their accounts”. “The reason the number may be going higher is because a lot of investors have not mandated their accounts. “Dividends are now distributed electronically, so dividends go directly into the investor’s account and if everybody mandates their accounts there would be little unclaimed dividends in the system,” he said. Yuguda said SEC “has invested a lot of resources, embarked on several programmes on investor education to ensure that people mandate their accounts”. To the investors whose dividends are stuck in moribund or active public limited liability company quoted on the Nigerian Exchange, Yuguda said: “The process is still open and can be done with the registrars. “Forms can be obtained from the banks too and it’s a very simple process. We also have on our website a tool that assists the investors to determine any unclaimed dividends that they have.” Minister of Finance Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed when introducing the Unclaimed Dividends Trust Fund had said “there would be as much as N850 billion” although there have to be exact reports from the CBN and then registrars to ascertain the actual size. “This is a special trust fund. It means the government is keeping the money in trust for the beneficiaries. “At any time a registrar or a bank confirms that there is a true and bonafide beneficiary of this fund, then the government will release from that trust fund to the investors,” Ahmed said.