The Chief Whip of the Senate and former governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, has debunked his purported plans to dump his party; the All Progressives Congress (APC). Our correspondent reports that rumours had emerged during  the week that Kalu was planning to dump the APC for the Action Peoples Party (APP). Rumours about Kalu’s impending defection to the APP emerged days after his younger brother and Chief of Staff to a former governor of the state, Chief Theodore Ahamefule Orji (current Abia Central Senatorial District Senator); Chief Mascot Uzor Kalu defected from the APC to the APP. The Nation recalls that Sen. Kalu’s younger brother was the Aba North and South Federal Constituency Candidate of the APC in the 2019 general elections. Kalu who reinstated his loyalty to the national leadership of the party said that he was surprised to hear that he alongside other stakeholders launched the new party   Ijaw National Congress gives Wike 48 hours to release Dagogo     End strike now to avoid disaster, Udom tells FG, ASUU     Oil wells: Imo accuses Wike of prior knowledge of Supreme…   “I have received several calls from friends, associates, political stakeholders and leaders of thoughts seeking my opinion on the defection of my brother, Mascot, from the All Progressives Congress, APC, to Action Peoples Party, APP. “Sincerely, the national chairman, two deputy national chairmen of our great party including the Senate President persuaded him to remain with the APC but he declined. “I was surprised to hear that he alongside other stakeholders launched the new party, Action Peoples Party, APP, in Umuahia without informing me. ”Well, I don’t have any issue with my brother; he has the right to take decisions on his political future, and, as a democrat, I acknowledge his right to determine his political affiliation and wish him well. “I remain the Chief Whip of the Senate and a committed member of the All Progressives Congress, APC. “I am even more determined to serve my people and facilitate more dividends of democracy to them.”