Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike has praised his Kogi State counterpart Yahaya Bello over his youth inclusiveness in governance and the administration of the state. He stated that his drive was allowing younger ones to learn governance. Wike gave the commendation yesterday when he visited  Governor Bello at his residence in Lokoja as part of his ongoing consultations with his party delegates in a bid to emerge as the flag bearer of the Peoples Democratic Party at the presidential primaries. The Rivers governor noted that it was right for him to pay a visit to the governor notwithstanding the party differences, adding that parties are a vehicle to convey any individual. He wished the governor would emerge as the flagbearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) so as to face him at the general election while also wishing him the best at his party primaries. Governor Bello thanked the visiting governor for recognising his administration’s quest and efforts to mentor the younger generation.   Law School students to Lalong: pay our seven years’ bursary     Kebbi hunters urge Buhari to sign NHFSS bill into law     PDP aspirant promises quality representation   He urged Governor Wike to take his time to tour the state to be able to see what his administration has been able to do in terms of infrastructure development and also interact with his party members and citizens to ascertain the state of affairs. Governor Bello recalled that politically, there used to be rancour but in recent times under his leadership, the APC, PDP and all other political parties, were cohabiting and living in peace with one another. He noted that he was in the race to be able to build on the successes and achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari, adding that despite the sabotage from within and outside, while also assuring that his leadership as the president of the country would sustain the momentum. He appreciated the governor for his respect and appreciation of the President despite the challenges faced by the country, adding that he was certain the Peoples Democratic Party ticket hopeful would throw his weight behind him in support of the younger generation’s desire to lead the country.