Senator Aliyu Wamakko has emerged the All Progressives Congress (APC) senatorial flag bearer for Sokoto North. The ticket enables the lawmaker to contest for a third term election to the Upper Chambers. Wamakko, who is the sole aspirant , picked the party’s ticket unopposed following affirmation by 420 delegates from across eight local government areas in the district. The primary was conducted by Electoral Committee led by its Secretary, Barr. Wale Ojo and member, Dr. Tona Famadewa respectively. However, the motion for the endorsement of Wamakko’s emergence via affirmation was moved by one of the delegates, Babangida Dantsoho and seconded by Aliyu Sabo from Kware local government .   Ex-AGF Aondoakaa kicks as suspended Priest wins Benue Gov…     Anyanwu-Akeredolu withdraws from Imo APC Senate race     Kwara lawmaker loses bid to return to Senate   Speaking shortly after his emergence, Wamakko expressed appreciation and commended the delegates for their sense of political resilience, party loyalty as well their unflinching support to his success and other party aspirants. While urging them to keep the party’s spirit high by sustaining the tempo, the former Sokoto Governor reiterated his commitment to meaningful representation at the Senate for the advancement and prosperity of the people of Sokoto State . According to him: “Our party is our pride and our members are our sour e of political inspiration . We must work together to woo more support for the victory of our candidates and party in the state and national level by 2023.” Nasiru Shehu Bodinga also.emerged winner of the party’s House of Representatives primary for the Bodinga/Tureta/Dange Shuni Federal Constituency. Bodinga reportedly emerged amid a chaotic situation that led to discharge of canisters following protest by some delegates from Tureta who alleged a change in the list of delegates with non delegates. He defeated four other aspirants, including Hajiya Sa’adat Yusuf Mohammed, Ja’afaru Waziri, Engr. Shehu Dange and Aminu Bodai.