Members of the Benin Community Association  (BCA) in Abuja have queried the sources of funds of the numerous All Progressives Congress (APC) members purchasing the expensive presidential nomination forms. The group, which queried why such funds were not brought out when the country needed it, said it is quite funny that money is now coming out from all corners because of politics. President of the association, Barr. Lucky Odigie, said a lot of the intrigues going on will reveal itself in time. He said the agenda of the association is the empowerment of its people and to push for well-placed sons and daughters of Benin Kingdom to attain employment and empowerment. Odigie said this in Abuja at the inauguration of the newly elected executives of the council. He said although the group is not political, it was nevertheless informing its people of the right thing to do while leaving them to make their decisions.   APC primaries: 150 aspirants jostle for Bauchi Assembly     Herders condemn mindless killings in Zamfara     Nasarawa APC adopts delegates from previous congresses   He said, “My advice to the youths in terms of the 2023 elections is that the youths should work to rebrand themselves; they should not believe in quick money being everything (sic). “Our major agenda is the wellbeing of our people in Abuja and its environs in terms of welfare, empowerment and financial growth. We are pleading with the sons and daughters of Benin Kingdom in high places to please provide employment for our people because a young man with something doing will not think of committing crime for politicians. I keep telling the youths that if you want to taste the love that the politician you are shooting guns for has for you, ask him for his daughter’s hand in marriage. “A lot of political strategies are going on, they all know what they are doing but we don’t know where those monies are coming from. How I wish they would have brought out those monies and say let us see what we can do for Nigeria. It is quite funny that these monies are coming out because of politics.” Guest speaker at the occasion, Akugbe Osayande, warned the aspirants against making acrimonious speeches they would regret. He said, “For peace to reign in this electoral period, the political gladiators need to understand that a winner must emerge because it is not possible for everyone to win. Therefore it is not a time to make acrimonious speeches that you will not be able to retract or get yourself into a place you will not be able to move out of. Election is seasonal, it comes and goes but we will permanently remain together.”