The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has arrested the Accountant-General of the Federation (AG-F), Mr. Ahmed Idris, over alleged N80 billion fraud. It was learnt that Idris, who has been detained, was being quizzed as of press time. But the AG-F may face another hurdle for allegedly overstaying in office. He attained the retirement age in 2020. EFCC’s Head of Media and Publicity, Mr. Wilson Uwujaren, said Idris’ arrest followed his alleged refusal to honour an invitation. The statement reads: “Operatives of the EFCC, on Monday, May 16, 2022, arrested serving Accountant General of the Federation, Mr. Ahmed Idris, in connection with diversion of funds and money laundering activities to the tune of N80 billion only. “The commission’s verified intelligence showed that the AG-F raked off the funds through bogus consultancies and other illegal activities using proxies, family members and close associates. “The funds were laundered through real estate investments in Kano and Abuja.   Govt okays N375b export grant     Airlines groan as aviation fuel scarcity bites harder     We’ve made major progress, says UNECA   “Idris was arrested after failing to honour invitations by the EFCC to respond to issues connected to the fraudulent acts.” Idris had been on the radar of the anti-graft agency for some time, it was learnt. A source added: “The Accountant-General of the Federation has been under watch for some curious payments running into billions of naira; financial interests in Gezawa Commodity Market Limited and Gezawa Integrated Farms Limited and other estate investments. “The AG-F, who attained 60 years on November 25, 2020, was yet to proceed on retirement contrary to the Civil Service regulations.” The public service rules prescribe 60 years of age or 35 years of service for mandatory retirement. The regulations say: “Accordingly, the following guidelines shall apply. (I) that career officers who take up tenured appointment should at the point of taking up the appointment retire from service to ensure they run their term uninterrupted. “(II) that career officers who have not retired from service before the commencement of their tenured appointment must leave office on attainment of mandatory age/years of service for retirement and “(iii) That career officers who are currently holding tenured appointment are required to retire from service with immediate effect and continue to run their term. “Failure to do so would mean that they would vacate office on attaining the mandatory age or at the expiration of their term whichever comes first.”