As the world marks the 2022 Children’s’ Day, Ondo State governor, Mr Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has described children as precious blessings and heritage of God that must be nurtured to greatness. This is contained in a statement issued on Friday in Akure by his Chief Press Secretary, Richard Olatunde. The governor said in the statement that his administration would continue to prioritise the well-being of children in the state and secure a better future for them. “Our administration recognises the importance of massive investment in the future of our children. “In our first term, we deployed huge resources in reconstructing our public primary schools to ensure that our school environment is conducive to learning. “We also employed qualified teachers through the State Universal Basic Education Board to bridge the long term dearth of teachers in our schools and deployed some to the rural communities. “The primacy accorded to accessible and affordable education of children in the `Sunshine State’, under our administration, birthed the payment of WAEC fees.   Sen Otu wins APC guber primary in Cross River     CUPP spokesman picks PDP Reps ticket     And God decided to show up, by Femi Adesina   “It is our resolve to continue to invest in education for the future empowerment of our children. They are critical stakeholders in the country.’’ Akeredolu said in the statement. The governor stressed that the security of children had been important to his administration, adding that it was determined to continue to wage war against perpetrators of violence against them. He assured that the state government would continue to pursue and protect the basic rights of children in line with global expectations as contained in the UN Child’s Rights Convention of 1989. The Convention was domesticated as Nigeria’s Child’s Rights Act 2003, and as Ondo State Child’s Rights Law 2007. “The protection, survival and development of children shall continue to be our top priority. “For us in Ondo State, our eyes are on building enduring legacies that will change the fortune of our state for good and create a prosperous state for our children who are the leaders of tomorrow. “We are planting trees, under which shades, they shall rest’’ the governor added. Akeredolu rejoiced with children and urged them to watch the friends they kept. He reminded them that the wrong peer groups would only end up spoiling good habits. (NAN)