The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) at the weekend alerted Nigerians to the danger of losing their cars to hackers. It warned that telecoms consumers and the public were prone to cyber-vulnerability that allowed a nearby hacker to unlock vehicles, start their engines wirelessly and make away with the cars. “The fact that car remotes are categorised as short-range devices that make use of radio frequency (RF) to lock and unlock cars informed the need for the commission to alert the public to this emergent danger,” the NCC said in a statement signed by its Director of Public Affairs, Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde. He said: “Hackers now take advantage of the vulnerability to unlock and start a compromised car.” He said the latest advisory released by the Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT), the cybersecurity centre for the telecoms sector established by the NCC, noted  the vulnerability as a Man-in-the-Middle (MitM) attack.   Who will PDP pick as flag bearer?     Banks attracted N6.69tr new deposits in 12 months, says CBN     APC mulls unity list, consults with critical leaders   The statement said: “A replay attack in which an attacker intercepts the RF signals normally sent from a remote key fob to the car, manipulates these signals and re-sends them?later?to?unlock the car at will.” Adinde said: “With this latest type of cyber-attack, it is also possible to manipulate the captured commands and re-transmit them to achieve a different outcome altogether. “Multiple researchers disclosed a vulnerability, which is said to be used by a nearby?attacker to unlock?some Honda and Acura car models and start their engines wirelessly. The attack consists of a threat actor capturing the radio frequency (RF) signals sent from your key fob to the car?and resending these signals to take control of your car’s remote keyless entry system.” The NCC advised that “when affected, the only mitigation is to reset your key fob at the dealership. Besides, the affected car manufacturer may provide a security mechanism that generates fresh codes for each authentication request. This makes it difficult for an attacker to ‘replay’ the codes thereafter. Additionally, vulnerable car users should store their key fobs in signal-blocking?’Faraday pouches’ when not in use.” “Car owners in the stated categories are enjoined to choose Passive Keyless Entry (PKE) as opposed to Remote Keyless Entry (RKE), which will make it harder for an attacker to read the signal due to the fact that criminals will need to be at close proximity to carry out their nefarious acts, the NCC said.