Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike has told leaders and delegates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the Southeast that among all the aspirants, he is the most capable person to protect and defend the interests of Igbo. Wike, who is a presidential aspirant of the PDP, met with the leaders and delegates of the party at Abia State Government House, in Umuahia on Friday to solicit their support ahead of the party’s presidential primary. The Governor, in a statement by his Special Assistant, Media, Kelvin Ebiri, said he would address social injustice and other forms of unfair treatment that people suffer in the country. Wike insisted on the restructuring of the country saying he was determined to be the first to start the process to strengthen the sense of belonging among the people. He said: “I say so with all amount of seriousness and I challenge anybody who is from the Southern part of Nigeria; who is from South-South, who is from South-East to say so boldly too. Check all of us, look and determine who can even defend the interest of Ndi Igbo better than me? “It is not merely to talk. I mean who has the mind? Who has the courage? I have the mind and I have the courage. I will make sure the injustice in this country is being solved. “Ask them, when they were in power, what did they do? How many of them have spoken out? Look, don’t waste your votes on such people.” Wike observed that things had fallen apart in the country because leaders in the All Progressives (APC), who controlled the Federal Government lacked such capacity. The Governor said he was prepared to effectively and productively take drastic decisions and do so courageously in order to promote national good.   Nigeria’s unity non-negotiable – Olubadan     NRC postpones resumption of Abuja-Kaduna train     We’re reviewing appointment of first FUTA female VC…   Wike assured that in solving the country’s numerous problems, he would also provide requisite logistics, and other support to the security agencies to enable them curb insurgency and activities of bandits within a given timeline. He said: “That is what leadership is all about. You must be courageous to take decisions people are thinking that is impossible. Inability to take decisions, that is our problem in this country. But I will take those decisions that people are running away from. I will take it.” Abia Governor Okezie Ikpeazu , who had earlier hosted Wike on a courtesy visit, said they found in Wike a leader, who was consistent, with a character and trustworthy. Ikpeazu said the country was in a precarious situation with a bleak future and required Wike to forge national unity, rescue the country and stabilise socioeconomic development. Former Abia Governor, Senator Theodore Orji, who is representing Abia Central at the National Assembly, described Wike as a performer, qualified to lead the country. He assured the presidential aspirant that Abia state delegates would support him. Former Gombe Governor Hassan Dakwambo restated that Wike was truly a tested politicia prepared psychologically and physically to be the best president of Nigeria. Abia PDP chairman, Dr. Alwell Asiforo Okere informed that most delegates were Wike’s converts because they believed in his leadership.