Speaker of the House of Representatives  Femi Gbajabiamila yesterday said democracy on the African continent was under threat by military incursion into the politics across the continent and loss of confidence in democratic government by the people. Speaking at the opening of the maiden conference of the Conference of Speakers of Africa Parliament in Abuja, Gbajabiamila also said the current insecurity across the continent posed grave danger to the youth of Africa. Lamenting recent interruption in democratic governance in some African countries, he stressed that even in places where democratic governance was still in place, public confidence in public institutions had been at its lowest ebb. He said: “Africa has come of age. Yet there is no gainsaying that we are far from achieving the highest potential that we are able. Across the continent, democracy is under threat and in retreat. “From Sudan to Mali, Guinea and Chad, elected governments have been usurped by military juntas, overturning years of progress and the hopes of millions. Even in the places where elected governments are still in charge, public faith in the governing institutions is at an all-time low.   Osinbajo: Africa must produce what it eats     ‘Malabu scam’: Defendant voluntarily gave statement, says…     Buhari returns to Abuja from Abidjan   “When citizens lose confidence that a democratic government can meet their expectations, democracy loses credibility and support and begins a death spiral. This is the reality in too many places across our continent. “Many reasons have been adduced to explain how we arrived at these dire circumstances. This Conference will examine some of those reasons to understand what we need to do to correct the trajectory of our countries and continent. “I want to tell you today that Africa’s destiny is not set in stone. Our tomorrow is a consequence of today’s choices, the commitments we make and the priorities we choose to pursue. “Despite the real challenges and present dangers, this is also a time of abundant promise and possibility for us in Africa. Technology has remade our world into a global village where a child with a computer and internet connection in Lagos or Addis Ababa can compete in and succeed in a global marketplace that prioritises ideas and talent over religion, ethnicity and tribe.”