A tech firm, Luno, has  expressed readiness to collaborate with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to regulate crypto currency trading. The firm has more than three million customers in the country and secures an average of more than 4,000 instals of its app daily in the country alone. SEC had released a new regulatory framework for the crypto sector, signalling a major shift in attitudes from authorities towards the industry’s growing popularity. Following the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) circular in February, last year, crypto exchanges have been banned from working with financial institutions. However, the latest developments from SEC could act as the precursor for a surprise move from the CBN to reverse its approach, providing critical foundations for mass crypto adoption across the country. Country Manager for Nigeria at Luno, Owen Odia, said the firm is leading global cryptocurrency exchange with over 10 million customers.   We’ve made major progress, says UNECA     ‘Tax exemptions, concessions causing revenue leakages’     Rising food, energy costs push inflation to 16.82 %   He said: “At Luno, we strongly believe today’s developments could mark a major breakthrough in not only delivering much-needed clarity and protection for crypto customers, but also for businesses.” “Since launching in Nigeria in 2015, we’ve always prided ourselves on consistently adopting an open and proactive approach towards regulation and with the SEC’s new framework, our hope is that our users will have greater confidence in us with their funds as we strengthen our push to raise the standards of our industry. “We are well aware that regulators such as the SEC share this same mission; however, we are also conscious that this is by no means an easy task for them. They have to get to grips with a new technology that very few are yet to understand but it is for this reason  they should continue to collaborate with industry players over the coming months and years. “Due to our expertise, we believe we can play a crucial role in helping the SEC navigate the nuances of this technology; so, any eventual regulations manage the need to protect consumers without stifling the huge innovation we’ve seen in Nigeria over the last few years.” The platform is also registered with the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit and adheres to stringent  Know Your Customer (KYC) and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) processes in 40  countries. In addition, Luno undergoes verification of its customers’ cryptocurrency by an independent audit firm, Mazars, quarterly and has achieved an ISO 27001 certification, a globally recognised standard for an Information Security Management System.