Super Eagles coach Jose Peseiro has said he is an advocate of attacking football and that is the way he expects his team to play. Peseiro, while addressing the press after the 2-1 loss to Mexico at the magnificent AT&T Stadium, Arlington, Texas, said he loves to attack and pressure his opponents and that is how the Eagles will play. “My philosophy as a coach is to play attacking football,” he explained. “I love my team to score and pressure the opponent, this is the best way to unsettle your opponent and win games. “That is how we played in the second half against Mexico. “And we will work more ahead of the Ecuador game.” Peseiro lost in his first match in charge of the Eagles and he said he will take the blame for this. He maintained that stand-in captain William Troost-Ekong should not be blamed for the team’s loss because he scored an own goal.   ITTF Championships : Egypt’s Assar edges Quadri to Africa…     Moses wins  Russian Cup with Spartak Moscow     Nottingham Forest wins EPL promotion  after 23-year wait   “I will not blame Ekong or any player for the loss,” the coach said. “I take the responsibility of whatever happened to the team as the coach. “Because Ekong scored one goal does not mean he is a bad player, he did well for the team. Every player in the world makes mistakes and that is not the end. He will come back stronger. “Every time people want players who committed error to be singled out for a loss, it is not like that for me. It’s a team game and errors can happen to any player.” Watford defender Ekong scored an own goal which happened to be the winning goal for Mexico as he tried to clear a cross. Meanwhile, President of the Nigeria Football Federation(NFF) Amaju Pinnick has expressed positivity with the performance of the Super Eagles in the game against Mexico. “I am happy with what we put up out there. It was the first time after the disappointment of the World Cup playoff and you can say this is a makeshift team, while Mexico had their full-strength squad out there,” the  FIFA Council Member said after the game. “ I like what I saw today and I have confidence that we have appointed the right coach that can restore the glory of the Super Eagles and make them start winning once more.”