The Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) has postponed the resumption of train services along the Abuja-Kaduna corridor. The Corporation had announced that operation would resume along the route on May 23, 2022. Though reasons were not given for the postponement, the Corporation in a statement by the Managing Director, Engr. Fidet Okhiria stated that a new date would be announced. Train service along the corridor was suspended in March after an attack on the rail track by terrorists. The attack led to the death of eight persons with several people injured while over 60 passengers were kidnapped. The Corporation assured relatives of those in captivity the Federal Government is alive to its responsibility for the safe rescue of all persons being held hostage pleaded for patience. The statement reads: “The General Public is kindly invited to note the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) is announcing a shift in the resumption date for Abuja Kaduna Train services (AKTS).   We’re reviewing appointment of first FUTA female VC…     UPDATED: Protest in Abuja over council chairmen tenure…     Osinbajo visits Imo, says ‘there’s a lot to be…   “The Corporation apologizes for the delays in the resumption of the service. “A new date will be announced soonest.” On efforts made to rescue those kidnapped, it stated: “The NRC will continue to cooperate and collaborate with the federal government in its uncompromising mandate of protecting the territorial integrity and the internal security of Nigeria for safeguarding the lives and properties of its citizens especially as it concerns the rail sub-sector. “In the same vein, we once again identify with the relatives of those in captivity on the account of the recent attack on AKTS to be rest assured that the Federal Government is alive to its responsibility for the safe rescue of all persons being held, hostage. “We, therefore, appeal, particularly to the relatives of persons held hostage to be patient and cooperate with the corporation and the security agencies as the federal government is exploring all possible ways and means to ensure the safe release of their loved ones from captivity, soonest. “The NRC expresses its profound gratitude to the security agencies for the continued support. Thank you and God bless Nigeria.”