After a 34-year break, The Village Headmaster, a must-see television drama series across the country in its heyday, returned on April 24. Written by Olusegun Olusola, now deceased, and directed by Dejumo Lewis, it was Nigeria’s longest-running TV drama series shown on the national television network from 1968 to 1988. Set in a fictional Yoruba village called Oja, the show dealt with a variety of subjects, including social problems and the effect of government policies on the community. The cast reflected different ethnic groups in the country, and communicated in Nigerian Pidgin, Standard English and Yoruba language.  It was a studio-based programme that promoted unity in diversity. There had been efforts to bring back the show before now, but there were issues, including contention over copyright, that got in the way of its return. It is commendable that the programme has finally returned, as a result of collaboration between the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) and Wale Adenuga Productions (WAP). This partnership involving the government-owned television network and the private production company demonstrates what is possible. Also laudable is the role of Globacom, the telecommunications service provider that is involved in the sponsorship of the TV series. Describing it as “iconic,” the company said it “remains unmatched and unparalleled in the annals of Nigeria Television.”  Globacom also said the programme “has undergone a spectacular makeover by Wale Adenuga’s WAP TV.” For a company that says it is “committed to excellence,” its involvement suggests that the viewing public should expect an excellent show. Indeed, the new programme is significantly different from the old one. The show has not only been revived; it has been reinvented. Importantly, it has been taken out of the studio and now has an outdoor rural setting that gives it greater realism. Some members of the original cast are in the new programme, notably Dejumo Lewis (Kabiyesi), Ibidun Allison (Amebo), Dan Imodu (Dagbolu), and Dele Osawe (Teacher Fadile).   Ohanaeze: It’s Igbo president or nothing     INEC to parties: only candidates from valid primaries will…     APC presidential form: 17 aspirants so far … still…   But new faces that are well-known in Nollywood have been introduced as part of the renewal. They include Mr. Latin, Jide Kosoko, Fathia Balogun, Rykardo Agbor, Yemi Shodimu and Binta Ayo Mogaji. The new series will face challenges, including attracting new fans in a new era. Times have changed since the programme was stopped in the 1980s.  Those who found it irresistible then may still feel the same way about it. But the more than three decades break is a long time, and there is a new generation of television viewers who were not around when the programme was popular. Also, the concept of the show may not appeal to a new generation that is more interested in urbanity than rusticity. In addition, there are far more TV stations these days, and there is intense competition related to content. The new programme will be shown on NTA, WAP TV and Africa Independent Television (AIT). The revivers of the show must have done their homework before embarking on the project. It remains to be seen if the new programme can attain the old glory. It is noteworthy that the old show ran for about 20 years before the long break, a record the new version may find difficult to break. At the launch of the show in Abuja, the Director-General of the National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Otunba Segun Runsewe, observed that the timing of the return was right, especially given that the country was experiencing widening schisms connected with religion and ethnicity, and had lost the values of old. The new show retains the spirit of the old one. It promotes unity and social values that the country can benefit from, particularly at this time. Considering its past success, the reintroduced programme carries a burden of expectation as it seeks to prove that it is still relevant.