“We are not seeking redress in any court over the killing of our daughter. We are firm believers in Christ who always leave everything in the hands of God. No vengeance, nothing. Everything is left to our creator. We don’t want anything from the government but it is just unfortunate that we used all of our resources to send her to school and now she is dead. She was my eldest child and I have seven others left”. That was the amazingly pacific reaction of the father of Miss Deborah Samuel, Emmanuel Garba, whose daughter, Deborah, was murdered on May 12 by a mob, for alleged blasphemy against Prophet Muhammed. A 200 Level student studying Economics at Shehu Shagari College Of Education, Sokoto, Deborah met her grisly end in what is becoming a relatively regular occurrence of jungle justice in some northern states now, and has been buried in her hometown in Niger State. Reacting to the incident, the deceased’s mother, Alheri Emmanuel, reportedly said “I have no demands; I don’t want anything but one thing I know is that my children will never go to school again”. Although there are unconfirmed reports that the family has denied this statement, it is important for governments at all levels in Nigeria to understand that this is the kind of reaction that could be elicited from disconsolate families when nothing concrete is perceived as being done to bring perpetrators of the tragedy that befell Deborah to book. Of course, denying Deborah’s siblings their right to education as a result of what happened to her is not an acceptable or desirable course of action. Indeed, ensuring that the remaining children in the family are educated to the highest levels to which they are capable has become an imperative, even as a tribute to her memory. The mob that could be so easily mobilised to snuff life out of Deborah on the basis of some ill-defined and ignorant notion of blasphemy are themselves victims of the abysmally low level of education in the north, the attendant poverty and large scale unemployment, a situation for which the elite of the region is largely responsible. True, President Muhammadu Buhari, the Sokoto State government, the Sultan of Sokoto, the Nasrul-Lahi-I-Fatiah (NASFAT) and the Northern Governors Forum (NGF), through its chairman,  Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State, among others, have all joined Christians and other leaders and groups in condemning a group of people taking the laws into their hands, defining what is blasphemy, declaring a person guilty of the alleged crime and going on to mete out the punishment of death with impunity as happened in the case of Deborah, as unacceptable and unlawful. But this had always been the routine response when incidents like this happened in the past. Obviously, since culprits are hardly brought to book, perpetrators are emboldened to continue to carry out these atrocities.   No booster jab, no hajj, says Lagos     Contractor, monarch clash over land     Fayemi appoints 14 Perm Secs, others   To his credit, the well-known Islamic scholar, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, strongly denounced the murder of Deborah, stressing that any Muslim who kills a Christian for allegedly insulting the Prophet will forfeit paradise. In his words, “The right thing the students who killed the lady in Sokoto ought to do was to report her to the school management. Then the management reports to the governor or Sultan for them to know how to stop her. Just by hearing her commit blasphemy, you just carried out jungle justice on her. Who taught you that? What do you want our country to turn into? We must leave these acts of barbarism behind” he said. Gumi pointed out further that Nigeria is not an Islamic state and that Nigerian Muslims have an agreement, presumably through the Constitution, to live together peacefully with people of other faiths. The importance of ensuring that this kind of forthright message by Sheikh Gumi percolates throughout the nooks and crannies of the North, is demonstrated by the violent protests that rocked Sokoto in the aftermath of the arrest by men of the Nigerian Police Force (NPF) of two prime suspects in the murder of Deborah. Apart from demanding the release of the two suspects, the protesters attacked private properties of non-indigenes resident in the state for inexplicable reasons. This is a premeditated act of blackmail designed to frustrate the attainment of justice in the murder of Deborah which must be vehemently condemned and resisted. Although the Sokoto State government rightly imposed a 24-hour curfew to contain the riots, its denunciation of the violent protests was weak and vacillating, in our view. The demonstrations ought to have been strongly condemned and its masterminds arrested and prosecuted. No group of people must be allowed to get away with the notion that they can easily abort the pursuit of justice through the kind of violence instigated to free Deborah’s suspected murderers in Sokoto. Even if insulting religion is a criminal offence under Shariah or Islamic law applicable in the Northern states such as Sokoto, it is the state and the court, and not individuals, who have the right to define crime, identify violators of the law, prosecute them and prescribe punishment. Prosecuting to a logical conclusion the prime suspects in the murder of Deborah has become imperative to serve as an example to forcefully demonstrate government’s determination to stop this kind of impunity.