The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has stated that some generation companies (Gencos) have commenced the renegotiation of contracted capacity with the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Company (NBET) to free up energy for eligible customers. NERC’s vice chairman, Musiliu Oseni, who made this disclosure in a briefing in Abuja, insisted that nothing has gone wrong with implementation of the eligible customers regulation implementation. He stressed that it is still on course. According to him, there a few eligible customers because of the handful ones that have been able to complete their submission and review of the necessary documentation. The Vice Chairman added that some of the customers that are yet to secure approval have challenges that include data or the inability of their potential generator to sell additional capacity to them under that framework.   Come to Africa if you want to enjoy life, says Akon     No plans to increase telecoms tariff, says NCC     FG approves interventions for tertiary institutions   He explained this is because many of the generators in the country already have contracts with NBET, stressing the said GenCos cannot contract the same capacity twice. On the renegotiation between GenCos and NBET, he said: “But of course, some of them (GenCos) are also making a move to renegotiate the contracted capacity already made with NBET in order to free up some capacity to sell to eligible customers. “So nothing wrong is happening to the regulation regulations in place. This framework is the ongoing.” Earlier, the NERC chairman, Engr. Sanusi Garba debunked media reports on tariff hike. He insisted that there was no new tariff review other than the ones that had been reported. But he admitted that the Extraordinary 2022 Multi-Year Tariff Order (MYTO) took effect in February 2022 and was only released on the commission’s website Thursday when the media feasted on it. According to him, the DisCos had already made public the same tariff. The reporters, however, stood their ground that in as much as NERC posted it on its website on for the first time on Thursday, it was news at that time.