The race for the presidential ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) got enmeshed in fresh confusion yesterday following the unexpected withdrawal of Labour and Productivity Minister Chris Ngige from the contest. Moments before the announcement, Ngige had joined other exiting ministers at a valedictory meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Another APC presidential aspirant, Mr. Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim, also bowed out of the race to fight another day. Ngige in a two-page statement yesterday said he decided to pull out of the presidential race after “an audience with the President, Muhammadu Buhari, as a follow-up to the one I earlier had with him on 11th May, 2022.” His status in government was not immediately clear even though the statement was written on the letter head of the Ministry of Labour and Productivity. Asked last night whether Ngige would remain a minister after attending yesterday’s valedictory meeting with Buhari, a top government official privy to the unfolding scenario simply said: “Let’s wait and see.” The source added: “I don’t understand. You attended the valedictory meeting and then turned around to say you remain a cabinet member because you did not fill or submit nomination form.” Attempts to clarify Ngige’s status from Presidential spokesman, Mallam Garba Shehu, were also unsuccessful. He said only the President could give a definite answer on the issue. Asked if the development meant the minister had been exempted from the resignation directive, Shehu, who said he had seen the statement announcing Ngige’s withdrawal from the presidential race, said: “How will I know? It’s only the President that can determine that. I won’t know until the President decides.” Lagos lawyer and activist, Femi Falana (SAN), dismissed Ngige’s withdrawal of his resignation as illegal. Ngige’s words: “On Tuesday, 19th April 2022, I publicly declared my interest to contest for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, following the constitutional provision that precludes our amiable incumbent President, Muhammadu Buhari, from seeking re-election to the office, as he would have completed his two terms in office by 29th May 2023. “The declaration was made in my home town, Alor, Idemili South Local Government Area of Anambra State. “My declaration was sequel to pressure on me from my constituents, political associates, friends and other well-meaning Nigerians, who felt I possess the necessary qualifications and experience for the job. “Some of these supporters even taxed themselves to procure the Expression of Interest/ Nomination Forms of our Party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) for me. The forms however are yet to be filled and submitted. “Today, 13th May, 2022, I had an audience with the President, Muhammadu Buhari as a follow up to the one I earlier had with him on 11th May, 2022. “Having also consulted widely with my family, constituents, supporters and well-wishers, it is my pleasure to announce the withdrawal of my interest and earlier decision to contest the office of the President in the 2023 general elections. “As a result of this, I will NOT be participating in any of the internal party processes of the said election, starting with the primary. “I took this momentous decision firstly in the overall interest of the nation, in order to enable me concentrate on my job, and assist the President and the Government weather the difficult last lap in the life of the administration and secondly for other family reasons. “I have since communicated this decision to the President and the Secretary to the Government of the Federation. “My constituents, political associates and well-wishers across the country are by this statement informed of this latest decision, which also has the blessing and support of the overwhelming majority, hence supersedes any other interest, personal or otherwise.” It’ll be one of my achievements if one of you succeeds me, Buhari tells outgoing ministers Bidding the outgoing ministers farewell yesterday, President Muhammadu Buhari said the emergence of any of them as his successor would go down in history as one of the achievements of his administration. He said a significant number of them have been sufficiently equipped to aspire to higher elective offices, including the office of the President. ”I have no doubt that if the next President emerges from among former members of this cabinet, like any other aspirant, ample competence and outstanding service delivery would be on display. This will be part of our legacies to Nigerians,” the President’s Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, quoted him as saying. The President commended the departing public officers for serving the nation sacrificially, ”with dignity and honour”, adding: “I would like to use this opportunity to commend your decision and courage to contest for elective offices and your compliance with my directive. ”I also wish to thank you for your invaluable services to this nation through your contributions as cabinet members. I wish you success in the upcoming elections and in your future endeavours. ”Selecting members of the Cabinet went through a careful process so that the best and most competent could emerge. The performance of that class of 2015 proved me right. ”In 2019, Nigerians similarly re-elected me as President. Again the selection went through another meticulous process. ”That re-election was significant because it served as a referendum on our performance during the first term and it inspired me to bring back some of the members of the first cabinet either to their old ministries or re-assigned to other sectors. ”New Members were also brought on board to inject fresh energies, skills and ideas to enhance the execution of government’s programmes and policies. ”With these and much more, I am happy to note that a significant number of cabinet members have become sufficiently equipped to aspire to higher elective offices, including the Office of the President. “This shows the impact of the experience gathered while serving as members of the Federal Executive Council.” Noting that the departure of some cabinet members has undoubtedly created a vacuum that should be filled, the President said appointments would be made without delay so that the business of governance would not suffer. President Buhari urged the remaining members of the cabinet to show more diligence, resilience and commitment to serve Nigerians better, saying ‘‘the journey to the finish line is still very far”.   With me as President, Nigeria will conquer banditry –…     APC ticket: Tinubu, Osinbajo, Adesina, 22 other presidential…     Blasphemy killing: Buhari demands thorough, impartial…   Present at the valedictory session were Ministers of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio; Science, Technology and Innovation, Ogbonnaya Onu; State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva; Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige. Others were the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN); Minister of State, Mines and Steel Development, Uche Ogah; Minister of Women Affairs, Pauline Tallen and Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs, Chief Tayo Alasoadura. The Minister of State (Education), Emeka Nwajiuba, who had earlier tendered his resignation, was not present at the valedictory session. Speaking on behalf of the outgoing ministers, Akpabio thanked the President for giving them the opportunity to serve and contribute their quota to nation building. He described working with the President as a ‘‘fantastic and knowledgeable experience,’’ adding that as they step aside they will continue to be great disciples of Buhari. ”As we step aside from FEC, I want you to know that you have disciples in us. I want you to know that it is time for us to propagate Buharism. ”I want you to know that we are going to be working closely with the Minister of Information and Culture to take your message of transformation, love, patience, administrative sagacity to Nigerians, ” he said. The Niger Delta Minister told the President that from his interactions with colleagues, leaving the cabinet was like the story of the Spanish play of ‘‘sadness and joy.’’ ‘’Sadness in the sense that we are going to miss the continuous daily and weekly interaction with a father and learning from him; joy because we now have an opportunity to go to the wider audience in Nigeria to speak more of your achievements for this country. ” Akpabio said of the President: “He is the best president Nigeria could ever have had at a time of difficult circumstances like this.” He prayed God Almighty to grant the President a successful tenure and protect his family, adding: ‘’May one of us succeed you in order to continue the good legacies you have laid on ground. We have seen and know your vision. We know where you want the country to be.” Uche Ogar, in a chat with reporters yesterday, said: “We’re glad to have worked with a man who has so much passion for a nation called Nigeria. So, we are glad to have worked with him.”  Also speaking to reporters, Mrs. Pauline Tallen said: “The issue of my own case is not about myself. It is about protecting Nigerian women, because we are fighting gender-based violence. “And now, what we are facing is political thuggery, political violence. And I don’t see any difference between political violence or gender-based violence. And that must stop. “I have no reason to say I will come out to contest because already I have a female serving Senator who I was very ready to support, but she has been threatened and intimidated and that has forced her to back out. And when she backed out, women put pressure; they put the form for me. I never, I’ve not put one dime to purchase any form. “But Nigerian women are making a statement. They say it is unacceptable. We have only eight women out of 109 in the Senate to be specific, and sad enough, out of these eight, when we are clamouring to have more women in addition to the eight, what we’re seeing now is that even amongst the eight, the men are trying to push some of them out. And that is unacceptable. Asked whether she had resigned, she said: “I’ve not yet resigned.” Lagos lawyer and civil rights activist, Mr. Femi Falana (SAN) said last night that the withdrawal of resignation letter by Ngige or any minister was illegal. “Such withdrawal is illegal as it constitutes a gross contravention of section 306 (2) of the Constitution which stipulates that ‘The resignation of any person from any office established by this Constitution shall take effect when the writing signifying the resignation is received by the authority or person to whom it is addressed or by any person authorised by that authority or person to receive it,” he said in a statement in Lagos. He said: “Since the resignation of the former ministers has taken effect, they cannot return to the cabinet either on their own volition or on the directive of the President. The resignation of the ministers is not a cabinet reshuffle. It is akin to the removal of the former ministers by the President. “Therefore, if the former ministers are going to be reappointed, the President is required by section 147 of the Constitution to submit names to the Senate for fresh screening and confirmation.” Announcing his own withdrawal from the APC presidential primaries, Mr. Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim said his “own day will come.” Olawepo-Hashim said that though his decision to contest was to offer a national platform for progressive forces who believe in the necessity and possibility of a new Nigeria capable of securing itself from internal and external threats, and bring prosperity to all her people, “certain developments have necessitated my withdrawal from the 2023 presidential race, as a result of which I did not pick the nomination form.” He added that he was “retreating not out of the lack of will to fight for our resolve and collective aspiration for a New Nigeria, a struggle which has attracted enormous support. Sometimes WILL and RESOLVE, Energy and Preparation may not be enough to engage in an encounter.” He said his aspiration “is not an ambition but an historic burden, as a team player.” Continuing, he said: “My current political pursuit must now bow to our collective national interest. It is not about me but about Nigeria. “I stepped aside believing that another day will come. I hope our party will still be able to find a candidate for the 2023 election that will unite and secure our country. One that will lead an inclusive government, and build a prosperous economy that will not leave anyone behind. “I leave the race believing that by the Grace of God, my own day will come!” He expressed gratitude to those who have connected with his messages and those who have offered support and prayers, assuring that pausing his presidential run is not quitting the struggle for a better Nigeria, “a struggle I have committed myself to the better part of my adult life.” “It is a tough decision for me, but in the present circumstance it is the best.” As the clock ticks toward the presidential primaries of the parties at the end of this month, National Security Adviser (NSA) Baba Gana Monguno has asked heads of security and law enforcement agencies to step up close monitoring and profiling of political actors, especially those suspected of exhibiting “tendencies to subvert the electoral process.” Thugs and their sponsors will be similarly trailed for possible arrest and prosecution, Monguno said at a meeting of the Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES) in Abuja. He expressed concern over what he called the growing uncertainty ahead of the party primaries for 2023 elections, the spate of violence threatening the upcoming off cycle gubernatorial elections in Ekiti and Osun states, and  the inability of various contending political blocs to amicably resolve differences in line with democratic tenets. He enjoined INEC to prevail on the political parties to consistently abide by prescribed rules as outlined in their respective manifestoes with a view to significantly reducing areas of conflict.