The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo, has called for more investments in Free zones to help the nation grow its yearly export turnover. Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo, said this yesterday, in Lagos during a roadshow for the concessioning of Calabar and Kano FTZs, organised by the National Council of Privatisation (NCP), through its secretariat, the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), in conjunction with the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment and the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA). The minister said Nigeria provided opportunities for manufacturers who  want to expand their markets. According to him, the government was determined to accelerate the pace of economic growth in the country, calling on potential investors to revive, reform and transform the Calabar and Kano Free Trade Zones (FTZs) into world class standard to make them functional and globally competitive. Adebayo said African countries such as Ethiopia and Ghana, have  leveraged FTZs  for growth and development, lamenting the failure of   Nigeria to  record the same success. He said Calabar and Kano Special Economic Zones (SEZs) were in a state that have not significantly improve the country’s competitiveness nor help the drive to effect structural change and economic diversification. According to him, the ultimate aim for the free trade zone scheme is to attract foreign direct investments, generate employment, enhance trade and industrialisation, promote exports, enhance foreign exchange earnings and encourage transfer of technical knowhow. He envisaged that the two FTZs when fully developed within a well-designed and executed framework could deliver outcomes like their counterparts in other climes where FTZs have contributed to their economic development.   African start-up joins Mastercard programme     Why JPMorgan delisted Nigeria from emerging market list     FIRS wants collaboration among African countries on digital…   Director-General BPE, Alex Okoh, said with the level of indications and participation, the level of interest by prospective investors had been quite strong. He said the Bureau published the request for qualification, earlier last month, which is the first stage of the process, while the deadline for submission is May 23. He said government’s expectations should catalyse development in the West African region that would optimise growth and development. Managing Director, NEPZA, Prof. Adesoji Adesugba, who was represented by Director, Zones, NEPZA, Muazu Ruma, highlighted the significance, benefits and incentives of investing in the Calabar and Kano FTZs. He said incentives like free duty, tax exemptions and import substitution drive, among others as some of the incentives and benefits of investing in the zones. The Transaction Advisers of the FTZs, Ernst and Young, Damilola Aloba, which representative made a presentation, said the two-tier concession structure, is which involved a property holding company and the concessionaire would be adopted for the purpose of the transaction. On key considerations and expected outcomes from the concession, he listed rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of the FTZs. He said it has to do with remittances to the Federal Government over the concession period and developing of host communities. He added that the bid opening would commence from September 25.