The arrest of the Accountant-General of the Federation (AGF), Ahmed Idris, by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) over alleged N80 billion fraud is shocking. The EFCC reportedly arrested Mr Idris, following his refusal to report to their office, to answer allegations of fraud levelled against him. Few days after his arrest, the Federal Government suspended the AGF from office, in tandem with the civil service rules, in view of the serious allegations against him. We are shocked at the humongous amount of money the AGF allegedly misappropriated, and we ask the EFCC to conduct a thorough investigation of the allegations. If Mr Idris is found culpable, the law should take its course. We commend the decision to suspend the AGF, so that the investigators can have unfettered access to documents and personnel in the cause of investigation. A report in the media claimed that the indictment was triggered off by an investigation conducted by the House of Representatives on the management of recovered loots. One of the reports claimed that the AGF had unilaterally sent N20 billion to the Ministry of Defence, another N20 billion to the Capital Development Fund, and yet another N19.6 billion was transferred to the African Development Bank (ADB). The report indicted the AGF for breaking the provision of section 180(3) of the 1999 constitution (as amended), which provides that: “No moneys shall be withdrawn from any public fund of the federation, unless the issue of those moneys has been authorised by an Act of the National Assembly.” The dealings between the office of the AGF and the Central Bank also allegedly revealed a lot of discrepancies, as some deposits with the CBN, could not be traced.   Parties’ financial accounts     Tinubu phenomenon in Nigeria’s political firmament     ASUU and government: If truth be told   There are also allegations that the AGF is linked to several high net-worth real estate investments in Abuja, Kano and Dubai. Of note, the AGF attained 60 years two years ago, and in accordance with the civil service rules, he ought to have retired. But in obedience to cronyism and tribalism, he was allowed to unlawfully extend his tenure. Tragically that illegal act appeared to have backfired, if the allegations against the AGF are proved. But even if it is not proved, the AGF stands indicted for remaining in office, beyond the clear provisions of the Nigerian law. On this score, the least he should do, is to refund the two years’ salary and other emoluments received unlawfully from the nation’s treasury. It is also baffling that the AGF should have unhindered access to the billions of naira allegedly misappropriated. We wonder how he can expend such huge sums, without triggering an alarm in the nation’s financial system. We consider it anomalous that one person, no matter how highly placed, should have authority to dispense any public fund, without an alternate authority exercising checks and balance raising an alarm. If such unfettered powers exist in the civil service, parastatals, and ministerial departments, it explains the high level of corruption in government agencies. We urge for an intricate web of checks and balances, with regards to the nation’s resources, at even every level. It is very sad that while universities are on strike because the Federal Government said it had no money to pay teachers their negotiated entitlements, while out-of-school children, especially the Almajiris roam the streets because of the paucity of funds to put them in school; a whopping sum of N80 billion is allegedly mismanaged by Mr Idris. Until Nigerians begin to connect corruption to the deprivations benumbing the citizens, the issue of corruption would not receive the urgent attention required. We urge the EFCC to ensure that the allegations against Mr Idris are not swept under the carpet.