Unlike nowadays, most people of my generation did not have the luxury of celebrating our birthdays until we were in higher school or in the universities. This was because the disposable incomes of our parents were limited and, in the ranking of priorities, celebrating birthdays came perhaps last. As we wended the journeys of life, we began to count our years if not our days just to know how far we have gone and what we needed to do to realize our ambitions. In my generation, the age of 21 was regarded as important landmark in our journey of life and by that time most of us were in universities pursuing academic studies that were to set us in professional or academic trajectories we had chosen or that were chosen for us by our parents, older siblings or our teachers who knew our academic strengths and potentialities. It is not like today when parents merely advise their children the line of professions they should pursue based on their children’s academic records. Children are not bound to follow their parents’ advice. It will even be seen as retrogressive for parents to force their children to pursue a certain professional line based on the parents’ preference rather than on the interest of the children. In spite of these, many parents still insist on what their children should study based on the principle of who pays the piper dictate the tune. It is however agreed that a person has reached a certain level of civilization when a child of a professor of surgery comes to his or her father to announce that music was his or her preferred area of interest and study and rather than for the mother or father to be unhappy, he or she goes to celebrate the child and to proudly announce to his or her colleagues how wonderful the child is. We have not reached that level yet but we are getting there if we are to judge by the growing number of highly successful academics and professionals whose children are becoming musicians and are rapping their ways to financial success! Shall I say this is not my experience. Perhaps in the fullness of time, one of my grandchildren will in future become a musician! Who knows? When I was in Christ’s School Ado Ekiti, we had no career counsellors. Our future path finders were our teachers the example of who we wanted to follow. This meant we wanted to be graduate teachers of Physics, Mathematics, History, Geography, Biology, Chemistry, English and even Latin. I did not encounter French until I got to Ibadan Grammar School Higher School course. Some of my classmates through the examples of old boys of our school felt they too could become medical doctors. As far as I can remember, no one thought he could become a lawyer, an accountant, engineer or any professional. At the age of 21, I wanted to become a professor like those who were our teachers at the University of Ibadan. Thank God I had raised the level of my ambition from secondary school teacher to that of a university teacher. This ambition was of course predicated on my performance as an undergraduate student. In whatever ambition one had, one did not include the divine or what I call the “God factor” in it. I am always happy for the young generation of Nigerians to whom the God factor is very important. I am not suggesting we shirk our responsibility as many do and expect so-called breakthroughs through the intervention of God without our working hard to realize our ambitions. Didn’t Saint Paul tell us who does not work shall not eat? There must be a sense of balance in the human and divine factors. Yes we must pray at the same time we must work; this is the meaning of the Latin phrase of “Ora et labora”. Education in my youth was seen as a way of access to the proverbial bread basket. Our parents or grandparents had to trade or farm to feed their families. My father before I was born had to go all the way to the then Gold Coast now Ghana to work in the manganese mines in Nsutta while moonshining as a pastor on Sundays. Education was not for education’s sake nor was it a civilizing agent to burn out the impurities associated with raw minerals. It was generally regarded as a struggle to put bread on the table for the family. In my childhood, this was the way we approached our studies. When I was in the University of Ibadan, one elderly classmate (we had classmates old enough to be our fathers) described his quest for a degree as” ija oye” meaning the fight or struggle for a degree! I remember the late Adamu Ciroma, former editor of New Nigerian newspaper, former Central Bank of Nigeria governor, Minister of Finance, and Agriculture among other offices he held with his Bachelors of Arts General degree, described the purpose of education for most Nigerians of his time as to avoid hard work or to avoid work at all! This is of course an exaggeration.   Because our daughters sleep with dogs (1)     Special status for Lagos     ‘No one should die from preventable diseases’   The earliest Nigerian graduates paved the way for independence in Nigeria and provided the administrative infrastructure to sustain the modern state of Nigeria before the present anarchic chaos that has become the fate of Nigeria. When my generation attained the foundational structure on which we built our future careers, our eyes opened to the various possibilities available to us. I had the opportunity to turn down offers of administrative positions in the western and federal civil services after scaling competitive examinations because I had, at the same time, offers of scholarship for post-graduate education in the University of Ibadan and in Russia and Canada at the same time. Even up till that time, I was still not numbering or counting my days because I thought I had a life time of lazing around and waltzing through life attending parties and boozing my way through life until age caught up with me. I began to think of getting married and having a family of my own. Even when I got married my friends and I continued in our ways of being married and still living carelessly if I may put it in a diplomatic way, while hiding the sordid lifestyle we led. Of course, we were still in our 30s and we never still thought of death. Death was what happened to old people and we were not old, at least not yet! We got involved in activism in politics and social life. For me I was involved in agitation during the Yakubu Gowon days for the creation of the old Ondo State with friends like Ladipo Adamolekun and Kole Omotosho by writing in the papers about the merit of our position. I must say the idea of further splitting the Western Region was not popular at that time. Our position was based on the need to accelerate development as well as for political equity in the fact of splitting of the former constitutive regions in the North in particular into states sharing the federal resources on equal basis with the old regions. In retrospect, I wish we were fighting for true or fiscal federalism and Yoruba unity instead of miniature and atomistic states we are now saddled with. Whatever activism we were involved in was at intellectual level characteristic and expected of academics in our time. Academics were still respected then and their opinions were taken into account by policy makers. It is not like today when academics are busy with bread and butter politics of salary increase and agitation for payment of “Earned Academic Allowances”. Even at that time in our 30s, we had no ambition of public office. We were still going about celebrating the arrival of our new babies and those of close colleagues. When these babies came and our wives were in the hospitals suffering from the pains of child birth, we would quickly hold frivolous parties in the homes of the fathers of the new babies to welcome the babies in the absence of mother and child! We called these parties “Idawo” to which our wives were not invited but girl friends were. Some of our wives permitted and indulged us in these irresponsible behaviours. The reason for this tolerance was that “boys will be boys”. In actual fact, many of these parties were innocent “get-together” and not always irresponsible behaviour by congenitally polygamous Africans. Happily, this irresponsible behaviour by adults behaving as adolescents has died a natural death unmourned and unremembered. I started numbering my days when my children were teenagers finishing high school and entering universities. It dawned on me that the days of merry-making were over and that I had to plan not only for my future and that of my children and that I must make hay while the sun shines and plan for retirement. I started thinking of building a house and not just of upgrading my car from Peugeot to Volvo and from Peugeot to Mercedes’ Benz and Citroen in those days when N6000 and N8000 would buy you brand new Volvo and Mercedes’ Benz respectively. The days of just making it were gone and the days of ambition set in especially when one began to see contemporaries in the civil services both federal and state and the armed forces become “movers and shakers” in power  in the country. One began to press buttons. Personally, I have never lobbied for any appointments in life. If there was a job advertised in the universities and I felt I was qualified, I applied for it and in most cases, I was shortlisted, interviewed and got the jobs with the exception of the vice chancellorship of the University of Lagos which the then Minister of Education, a colleague, told me that the job had been given to someone even before the advertisement! Whatever one has achieved in life in my own case was due to divine beneficence and also my hard work. By the time one thinks he has settled down, then age and the ailments attached to aging begin to catch up on one. At 80 God has been favourable to me. Whatever is left of my life, I live at God’s plan and mercy. Let me use the opportunity of my column to thank my children, grandchildren, the Osuntokun family, the Editorial Board of The Nation, former students, colleagues, friends, my church clergy and Pastor Tunde Bakare for his wonderful lecture, generosity and time in honouring me. God bless you all.