The 81 Division of the Nigerian Army has said it arrested one Jude Eze for alleged sale of military accoutrements to criminal elements within Lagos and Ogun State. The Division made the clarification while reacting to allegations by the Rule of Law and Accountability Advocacy Centre (RULAAC) that it arrested and detained the civilian for allegedly selling Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) boots. A statement on Thursday by spokesman for the 81 Division, Major Olaniyi Osoba, said Eze’s was arrested after confessions by various impersonators on where they got their uniforms led to a raid on illegal vendors. He confirmed Eze was in army custody and would be handed over to the appropriate agency as soon as investigations were concluded. Osoba said: “The Headquarters 81 Division Nigerian Army (NA) has been notified about a publication making the rounds on the social media that the Rule of Law and Accountability Advocacy Centre (RULAAC) petitioned the General Officer Commanding 81 Division NA, over the detention of a civilian named Jude Eze at Dodan Barracks, Lagos.   Atiku urges PDP presidential aspirants to close ranks for…     God has chosen me to become Oyo governor – Adelabu     Money will not determine who picks APC tickets – Sen. Adeola   “In setting the records straight, it would be recalled that 81 Division recently arrested several impostors posing as military personnel, who were paraded before the media and subsequently handed over to the Nigeria Police for further necessary action. “Preliminary investigations conducted on the impostors revealed that most of them acquired their military accoutrements from illegal vendors within Lagos. These findings necessitated a raid on illegal vendors of military accoutrements in Lagos, leading to the arrest of several culprits. “Currently, investigation into their activities is ongoing to obtain more intelligence and unravel some suspicions about their activities and networks, both within and outside Nigeria, since it is a matter that touches on breach of national security. “The division wishes to state that as soon as the investigation is concluded the suspect would be handed over to the appropriate security agency for further action. “Members of the general public should be rest assured that the Division will continue to respect and protect the rights of citizens as enshrined in the constitution.”