Cititrust Holdings Plc, a diversified finance and investment group, has listed its shares on the NASD OTC Securities Exchange, paving the way for investors to trade on the shares of the group. A total of one billion ordinary shares of Cititrust Holdings were listed at N5.5 per share, giving the group initial market capitalisation of N5.5 billion. Cititrust Holdings is a finance and investment group with operations covering commercial banking, investment banking, wealth management, pension management, insurance, and alternative investment and securities trading. Since 2007, Cititrust Holdings has grown from its home Nigerian market to establishing footprints in 12 African countries including Ghana, Rwanda, Botswana, Liberia, Benin Republic, Malawi, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Cote d’Ivoire and South Africa. It also has operations in United Kingdom. The group noted that the upscaling of its operations in 2019 into a vibrant and reputable financial services provider aligns with the strategic vision of its shareholders to build an enduring institution that serves as a multifunctional service offering for its clients. The NASD OTC Securities Exchange is the government-approved over-the-counter (OTC) platform for trading in unlisted public companies.   NGX calls for long-term sustainable finance     Multiverse to cancel 3.84b shares in share reconstruction     Vitae London eyes Nigeria’s listing as top brand makes debut   NASD provides companies and investing public an orderly and transparent market for shares to be traded, such that with transparency, investors have some comfort in the type of transactions taking place. NASD can also, by its structure and rules open securities to trade between 24 and 48 hours, with its only requirement being that the securities being introduced are registered at Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and complies with the capital market regulations. The NASD OTC platform was created for securities that are not listed on any other securities exchange, thus providing a secure regulated platform for Investors to trade on them. Cititrust Holdings joined several other companies on the NASD OTC Exchange, including Infrastructure Bank, 11 Plc, formerly known as Mobil Oil Nigeria Plc, Capital Bancorp Plc, Dufil Prima Foods Plc, the manufacturer of Indomie Noodles; Friesland Campina Wamco Nigeria Plc, manufacturer of Peak Milk brand; and Fan Milk Plc, popular manufacturer of Fan Yoghurts, NIPCO Plc, Air Liquide Nigeria Plc Industrial & General Insurance Plc, Central Securities Clearing System Plc, the clearing and depository arm of the Nigerian Stock Exchange; Nigeria Mortgage Refinance Company, Acorn Petroleum Plc, ARM Life Plc, Afriland Properties Plc, BGL Plc, Consolidated Breweries Plc and Food Concepts Plc. Others included Geo-Fluids Plc, Golden Capital Plc, Niger Delta Exploration & Production Plc, Partnership Investment Company Plc, Resourcery Plc, Riggs Ventures West Africa Plc, Swap Technologies & Telecomms Plc, Vital Products Plc, Fumman Agric Products Industries Plc, Free Range Farm Plc, FAMAD Plc, AG Mortgage Bank, Trustbond Mortgage Bank Plc, Mass Telecom Innovation (MTI ) and Providus Bank among others. Inaugurated in July 2013, NASD is registered by the Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC) as a Self-Regulatory Organisation (SRO). The NASD OTC provides the platform for trading of a broad range of instruments over-the-counter, including equities, bonds and securities not listed on the Nigerian Exchange (NGX).