An All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant in Oyo State Chief Adebayo Adelabu has rejected the primary which produced Sen. Teslim Folarin as the party’s candidate. He assured that he would still be a candidate in the next year election. Adelabu polled 327 votes to come second in the primary held at the Obafemi Awolowo Stadium, Ibadan on Saturday to Folarin’s 954 votes. But Adelabu alleged that the shadow election was rigged by Folarin, whom he accused of compromising the delegates list used for voting. Adelabu, who was the APC governorship candidate in the 2019 election, lost with 351,000 votes to Governor Seyi Makinde of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who polled 510,000 votes. In a statement at the weekend, Adelabu alleged the delegates list was manipulated in favour of the winner, describing the exercise as an ‘ignominious charade.’ He assured his supporters of communicating his next decision in the next few days. The statement reads in parts: “ I could have attended the political rabble rousing event on Saturday in protest, but I figured out that attending such would lead to a compromise of the peace of the people of Oyo State. I had it at the back of my mind, the violence caused by the same actors on the 29th of December, 2010 in which the NURTW Oyo State Chairman then, Alhaji Lati Eleweomo and two others, were murdered in broad day light, when our Senator of PDP then, was struggling and strangling for power over the people and resources of Oyo State. “Mindful of the fact that my ambition should never be a cause to spill the blood of those I intend to serve, I decided to stay back from the money guzzling political frolic that took place yesterday. If I had attended in order to foist the flag of truth and honesty at the event, it may have engendered an unnecessary bloodbath yesterday. I give all thanks and praise to the Almighty Allah that I had the calmness of mind to stay back from those that engender violence instead of peace where ever they go out as political carpet baggers in search of self aggravating power.   Port Harcourt stampede: Our story, by King’s Assembly     ‘Enugu PDP Gov candidate Mbah not assassinated’     PHOTOS: Nigerian riding from London finally arrives Nigeria   “I am soberly aware with my numerous supporters that some very dangerous elements are all out to hijack the soul and body of APC in Oyo State and I assure you that all legally and constitutionally possible means shall be engaged to halt them and save our great party from their leprosy-infested crooked fingers; for the people of Oyo State are entitled to a life of peace, a viable economy and prosperity with great infrastructural development devoid of violence and wanton destruction of lives and property. “I hereby use this opportunity to plead with my supporters throughout the nooks and cranny of Oyo State to remain calm and be law-abiding. We shall in the shortest time ahead inform you all of my next line of action. “The provision of a more abundant life for the great people of Oyo State is non-negotiable. “This is to put it on record that I didn’t participate in the charade called primary election as the delegates lists were manipulated. “My attention has also been drawn to my purported defection to Social Democratic Party after the just concluded kangaroo Primary Election of All Progressives Congress. While I’m still consulting widely with political associates, community opinion leaders, families and friends, I’m categorically stating that I have not defected to any other party whatsoever, but my final decision will be communicated to you all at the end of consultation in a matter of few days. “All I can tell the whole world for now is that I am going to contest in the 2023 general elections as a gubernatorial candidate, no matter what. This is the only reason why I left my groovy career as a Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria in 2018 and no amount of intimidation, threat or harassment can stop me from my passionate ambition of revolutionising the political, social and economic landscape of Oyo State through machinery of government. “As of today, I’m not a member of SDP or any other political party as being widely circulated by media organisations. Appropriate steps will be taken after consultations in due course. “What happened at Liberty stadium Oke Ado at the governorship primary election of APC was nothing but a show of shame and mockery of APC internal democracy. I fully dissociate myself from such mockery of our political system. “The one day delay in conducting the primary was meant to enable them perfect their act of manipulation as nothing stopped the committee from conducting the election on the original date fixed. This foul play was quickly noticed by me, hence my decision to opt out of the shameless process.”