Few weeks ago, the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) migrated from the old version of the ECOWAS Common External Tariff (2017- 2021) to the new one (2022- 2026). NCS Public Relations Officer, Timi Bomodi, said the migration was in line with the World Customs Organisation (WCO) five-year review of the nomenclature, where the contracting parties are expected to adopt the new version on regional considerations and national economic policy. While Bomodi said the implementation of the new version of the CET takes immediate effect, stakeholders, who spoke with The Nation, warned against this, saying it would be counter productive to the economy. The stakeholders said the implementation of the latest version of CET amounted to official highhandedness and lack of consideration for the organised private sector by those in the position of authority. They challenged Customs to point out the economic impact of the two per cent NAC levy that had been collected for over two decades by the Service on Nigerians. CET  The ECOWAS Tariff and statistics nomenclature is a common customs nomenclature based on the harmonised system of description and coding of goods (HS) adopted by the community. It is a 10-digit tariff and statistical nomenclature defining the list of goods making up the tariff and statistics nomenclature categories of the CET. It is the application of the same customs duties, import quotas and preferences by a group of countries in a customs union. The import duties, quotas and preferences are applicable to good entering the region of the customs union irrespective of the country of first entry of the goods. The CET is one of the principal instruments for harmonising ECOWAS Member States and strengthening its common market.To establish an economic union, the community is to ensure, in stages, among other means, the establishment of a common market through “the adoption of a common external tariff and a common trade policy vis-à-vis third countries …” To this end, the ECOWAS Authority of Heads of State and Government established an ECOWAS Customs necessitating the formulation of a common external tariff with a common nomenclature so that customs procedures are transparent, readily followed and delays at borders decreased, is a key stone in achieving this union. In January 2006 in Niamey, The Authority of Heads of State and Government of ECOWAS adopted a decision establishing the ECOWAS-CET, which draws on the basic UEMOA CET composed of four tariff bands, or rates of customs duty. What the NCS said Explaining the CET, Bomodi, NCS spokesman, had said:  ”The nation has adopted tariff lines with few adjustments in the CET. As allowed for in Annex II of the 2022-2026 CET, and in line with the Finance Act and the National Automotive Policy, NCS has retained a duty rate of 20 per cent for used vehicles as was transmitted by ECOWAS with a NAC levy of 15 per cent. New vehicles will also pay a duty of 20 per cent with a NAC levy of 20 per cent as directed in the Federal Ministry of Finance letter ref. no. HMF BNP/NCS/CET/4/2022 of April 7, 2022. “It is instructive to note that domestic fiscal policy on the importation of motor vehicles and other items is targeted at growing the economy in these sectors.The focus of the NCS is on the implementation of these policies in the hope that it achieves its desired objectives in line with the National Automotive Policy and other fiscal policies of the government. “The NCS has also activated the use of Chapters 98 and 99 of the CET, in accordance with WCO recommendation for national use by contracting parties, which in our case promotes industrialisation through sectoral and sub-sectoral incentives for members targeted at economic growth, enhancement of security and minimised consumption of unwholesome goods. “It should also be noted that the automotive industry, bona fide assemblers, manufacturers of auto spare parts, and other local manufacturers enhance technology transfer and skill acquisition, create jobs, and increase per capita income. “In Chapter 98 of the CET – bona fide assemblers importing Completely Knocked Down (CKD) and Semi-Knocked Down (SKD) are to enjoy a concession of zero per cent and 10 per cent Duty rate. While within ECOWAS, duty rates for the same items are five per cent and 10 per cent. “Incentivising their efforts through policy interventions guarantees a win-win situation for the nation in the long run.” Stakeholders react But stakeholders in the industry have lamented this new version of CET, tagging it as one of the unfavourable policies of the Federal Government despite the explanation by the NCS that it is in line with the Finance Act and the National Automotive Policy. The service had retained a duty rate of 20 per cent for used vehicles as was transmitted by ECOWAS with a NAC levy of 15 per cent. Worried by the new policy, the stakeholders berated the government. One of them, a former President of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Prince Olayiwola Shittu, said the introduction of regular wrong policies would continue to have negative effect on the maritime trade and bad impact on the growth of the economy. “As far as I am concerned, when the Federal Government continues to take a wrong turn, the economy suffers. Policy somersaults result in negative economic developments. At a time like this, we expect our leaders to step in diligently and make the interest of Nigerians paramount in their minds.   UBA’s Leo: Making banking more convenient, easier     Events that shook internet in April 2022     ‘Dangote Refinery will focus on gas export, others’   “We are worried because when the government said that new vehicles would also pay a duty of 20 per cent with a NAC levy of 20 per cent as directed in Federal Ministry of Finance letter ref. no. HMF BNP/NCS/ CET/4/2022 of 7th April 2022.” Also, the National President, Africa Association of Professional Freight Forwarders and Logistics of Nigeria (APFFLON) Otunba Frank Ogunojemite, argued that by the new levy, Customs had shown a high level of inconsistency capable of betraying trust and undermining the cordial working relationships with freight forwarders and importers. Ogunojemite said the association was against the collection of NAC levy on used vehicles, adding that it should be limited to brand new vehicles only. His words: “We demand to know why used vehicles should pay NAC levy, and how the money will be appropriated. When Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala was Finance minister, she removed NAC levy, which was two per cent then. Why the sudden imposition of 15 per cent and 20 per cent NAC levy on Nigerians? “Nigerian importers lost over N300 billion in demurrage in the last protest caused by increased target given to NCS by the Federal Government. It is high time Customs commenced interface with critical stakeholders on revenue policies to forestall crises in Nigerian ports.” Former President, National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), Dr. Eugene Nweke, also faulted Customs the NAC levy of 15 per cent in addition to the duty rate for imported vehicles, saying that implementation of the latest version of CET amounted to multiple charges. Nweke said Customs should point out the impact of the levy that had been collected for over two decades on the economy. The maritime expert said the levy was a pointer to the administrative incoherence and confusions on the part of Federal Government. He said: “Customs action depicts the fact that we have endorsed the CET, but have also done our adjustment to accommodate the NAC levy of 15 per cent additional to the duty rate for an imported vehicle. “The 2013 Automobile Policy leading to the issuance of permit to over 130 automobile plants, with its accompany 35 per cent Import Duty and 35 per cent levy on new vehicles and 35 per cent duty with7.5 per cent Vat on used vehicles – is aimed defeated or actualised, because most of the licensed automobile plants has turned to mere traders, in the face of increasing import volume for used and accident vehicle, mostly so, where the intent of the policy was to evolve a mass production of quality and affordable vehicles for the Nigeria populace?” Similarly, a motor dealer, Folagbade Adebanjo, predicted that the CET would crash in the nearest future because, according to him, the treaty will not aid trade facilitation in the ports. Justification by the govt The government said the rationale behind the new duty and the collection of  the National Automotive Council (NAC) levy was because of the review of the ECOWAS CET for 2022 to 2026, saying that this necessitated a downward  adjustment of import duty on vehicles. “The Nigeria Customs Service migrated from the old version of the ECOWAS Common External Tariff (2017- 2021) to the new version (2022- 2026). This is in-line with WCO five-year  review of the nomenclature,” Bomodi said According to him, the new decisions were in tandem with CET, the Finance Act and the National Automotive Council policy of the government. Importance of the policy According to Customs, part of the objectives of the government is to use the new version of CET to grow the economy. “It is instructive to note that domestic fiscal policy on the importation of motor vehicles and other items is targeted at growing the local economy in these sectors. The focus of NCS is on implementation of these policies in the hope that it achieves its desired objectives in line with National Automotive Policy and other fiscal policies of government.” Also, Bomodi explained that NCS had activated the use of Chapters 98 and 99 of the CET, in accordance with WCO’s recommendation for national use by contracting parties, which in our case promotes industrialisation through sectoral and subsectoral incentives for members targeted at economic growth, enhancement of security and minimised consumption of unwholesome goods He stressed that in Chapter 98 of the new CET, bona fide assemblers importing Completely Knocked Down (CKD) and Semi Knocked Down (SKD) would enjoy a concession of zero per cent and 10 per cent duty rate, while within ECOWAS, duty rate for same items would be five per cent and 10 per cent. How to make it work To make the new levy acceptable, a motor dealer said the Federal Government, through the Customs, needs to embark on serious sensitisation of the importers, clearing agents and other critical stakeholders before the commencement of the implementation of  the new version of CET. A motor dealer added that the Federal Government’s approval on the implementation of the new policy would cause more harm than good for importers, pointing out there was the need for dialogue.