As preparations for 2022 edition of Africa’s premium polo extravaganza, Access Bank-UNICEF Charity Shield Polo tournament gets to its feverish pitch, defending champions, Fifth Chukker and last year’s runners-up Jos Malcomines and other teams are gearing up for international fiesta, which gallops-off at the Fifth Chukker & Country Resort in Kaduna next week. Revered as one of the biggest charity polo platforms in the world, the UNICEF event will be decided in two stages, with teams battling for the Usman Dantata Cup and the events’ second most wanted prize, The Access Bank Cup in the first stage. The second and the grand finale stage, which promises to be one of the most exciting Charity shield confrontations in years, will pitch four ambitious teams and title holders against Malcomines in a winner-takes-all chase for the UNICEF Cup and tournament’s top prize, the Charity Shield. Last year, the Fifth Chukker team defeated Jos Malcomines 18- 12 in the final game, to win the event’s biggest prize, the Charity Shield. Other winners of the weeklong polo extravaganza include Fifth Chukker (2), Lagos Aplus and Intershelter teams. The proud champions carted home the Access Bank Cup, UNICEF Cup and the Usman Dantata Cup respectively. One of the major highlights of the opening stage of the annual charity event last year was undoubtedly the Children’s Day celebration with the First Lady of Kaduna State, Hajia Aisha Ummi EL-Rufai as the Mother of the Day.   ‘Bazooka’ Bassey earns praises after Europa masterclass     EPL: Chelsea secure third-place with Leicester draw     EPL: Aston Villa, Burnley settle for draw   The First Lady, who celebrated the Children Day with school pupils from selected schools around Kaduna, thanked the partners for using the Access Bank UNICEF Charity Shield polo platform to enhance the educational and health wellbeing of children in a most special way. “There is an important need for both private and public sectors to do a lot more in support of the Nigerian child, particularly the orphans and vulnerable children to enable them look forward to a better tomorrow,” the Kaduna State First Lady noted. It would be recalled that the Charity Shield began in 2003 as a platform to support local charity organizations in Kaduna. Since 2006 this humanitarian effort has been geared exclusively towards UNICEF intervention projects for orphans and vulnerable children in Kaduna State. In 2008, the Charity Shield received a major boost when Access Bank agreed to a multi-year sponsorship deal, making the tournament one of the best-supported events in the history of Nigerian sport. The event is very well attended by high ranking government dignitaries such as the Vice President, Senate Deputy President, governors, corporate chieftains and traditional emirs. Income generated from gate takings and donations is channelled to UNICEF in support of meeting the needs of orphans and vulnerable children in their care, including providing healthcare and education supplies. The charity provides additional training for children and caregivers and aims to increase knowledge and skills around nutrition, healthcare, hygiene and psycho-social support, with additional life skills and civic education for older children. The Access Bank UNICEF Charity Shield polo which is in its nineteenth year has so far raised more than N100 million for UNICEF in support of projects aimed at alleviating the plights of the underprivileged children in Kaduna State and its environs.