Real Estate investor, Aguda Olufemi Michael has showed concern about the rate of insecurity in Nigeria while calling on the government to do everything in its capacity to protect the lives and properties of its citizens. The Chicago based Nigerian stated this while responding to various questions during an interaction with the media. The property businessman, better known as Femi Aguda, said it is heartbreaking reading about the terrible situation in the media. “It breaks my heart. I pray that God will comfort the families of those killed and I wish the government will do more to prevent such occurrences,” he said. Responding to the question of how Nigerians can survive in this time of harsh economy, he stressed the importance of having multiple streams of income.   Collapse Building: I gave tenants quit notice – Caretaker     Ebute-Meta building collapse: Death toll now 8     Mother, child recovered dead from collapsed Lagos building   Drawing from his experience, the Block 22 Realty LL CEO said: “In the early years, I used my spare time to work as a delivery driver for Amazon Flex and Uber Eat. Earnings from such side jobs helped to fund my daily living and business expenses. These days, despite that I am making a good earning from real estate, I am also investing in cryptocurrency.” Asked about his target areas of new investment, Femi Aguda avowed that there is none presently outside his professional niche “I plan to invest in real estate development in Nigeria in future,” he affirmed. Speaking about success factors, he emphasized the importance of the individual taking charge of his life. Referring to his recent post on Instagram, titled “8 Things You Can Do To Empower Yourself,” he reiterated: “Most of the things in the recipe for success are self-help routines which include having your goals written down, working on your dreams, starting small, reading books, solving problems and having a mentor. And above all, believing in God and His Blessings. You must do the right things that trigger the blessing of God in your life and career.”