The Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) on Friday bowed to pressure and announced the suspension of the proposed resumption of the Abuja- Kaduna Train Service (AKTS) indefinitely. In its 11th update since the Kaduna bound train was attacked by terrorists on March 28, 2022, signed by Yakub Mahmood, the Deputy Director Public Relations, the corporation said the resumption, earlier announced on May, 16, 2022, to resume on Monday has been postponed. It said a new date will be announced soonest. The corporation appealed to relatives of victims abducted by the terrorists to be assured of Federal Government’s responsibility of  safe rescue of all persons being held hostage. According to the statement: “We therefore appeal, particularly to the relatives of persons held hostage to be patient and cooperate with the Corporation and the Security Agencies as the Federal Government is exploring all possible ways and means to ensure the safe release of their loved ones from captivity, soonest.”   APGA reschedules House Representatives primaries     Former NDDC official, Turnah, jailed four years     NNPP, party to beat in 2023 says National Chairman   It assured of the determination of the Corporation to continue to collaborate with the Federal Government in its uncompromising mandate of protecting the territorial integrity and internal security of Nigeria for safe guarding the lives and properties of its citizens especially as it concerns the rail sub-sector. The NRC expresses it profound gratitude to the security agencies for their continued determination to restore the confidence of passengers on the safety of train service on all its networks. Recall that relatives of the abducted victims being held hostage had threatened to attack the train service if it attempts to resume any commercial operation on Monday. Addressing journalists at a press conference on May 16, 2022, they had  expressed their anger at the Federal Government for directing the Corporation to resume train services on the Abuja-Kaduna corridor without first rescuing their loved ones, who are still held hostage by terrorists since March 28. TIn response to their agitation, the Federal Government, on May 18, had hinted that the commercial services may be suspended, even as it assured that all efforts are being out in place to ensure the safe return of all those abducted a d are still held hostage by the terrorists.