Nigerians will benefit from French, Director/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Nigeria-French Language Village, Prof Tunde Ayeleru, has said. These opportunities are untapped because of the inability to unearth it, he noted. At a session with reporters, Ayeleru described the country as a blessing in disguise. He noted Nigerian businessmen will gain more by doing business with Francophone nationals if grounded in French language. The don also said French-speaking job seekers stand a chance of getting opportunities. He said: “A lot of job and business opportunities abound in Francophone countries. These countries are also interested in doing business with Nigerians because of our people’s financial muscle. Without the language barrier, more could be achieved.” Ayeleru also noted that the war against insurgency can be won earlier if security officials understand French. “Security operatives can fight insurgency and banditry better by learning French . We all know that a large chunk of insurgents hail from French-speaking countries in West and Central Africa… “We are surrounded by Francophone countries and if our neighbours are Francophone, once we relate with them with our minimal proficiency in French, we can gather intelligence…”   IPOB asks Kumuyi to call off Aba crusade     Kidnapped victims’ families kick against planned train…     Buhari signs National Health Insurance Authority Bill into…   The don hinted that the institution is working with security agencies to teach personnel the language. “We teach Customs, Immigration, Naval officers and Armed Forces, as well as those in the Foreign Service and the Department of State Security (DSS). They all know the import of French as it would affect intelligence gathering. “Like you know, most of these people are foreigners who come from different countries into our own country. We are surrounded by Francophone countries and if our neighbours are Francophone, once we relate with them with our minimal proficiency in French language, we can begin to gather a lot of intelligence that will help in checking the terrorists’ operation,” he said. He said the village also organised workshops and refresher courses for diplomats, personnel from ministries, parastatals, agencies and private companies. Prof Ayeleru said translation or interpretation can be distorted and damage the communication process in an international event where participants don’t speak same language. “That is why there is a saying that if you are doing translation, you have the tendency of cheating in a way. Somebody is saying something, you can decide to make the translation mild or more serious or even keep the fact. But if you speak the language, you do not need to go through any translator or interpreter who can distort the facts. Besides, if you understand the language, the way you will gather information will be different from somebody who has a document and does not speak French and relies on someone else to do the translation.” According to him, over 72,000 students from various tertiary institutions including other categories of Nigerian learners had been trained in French language over the years. Ayeleru stated that in line with the mission to which the school was set up, the Nigerian French Village is committed to developing French language in the country, and fostering a culture of transnational bilingualism for nation building, and international cooperation. “Apart from the fact that students who undergo their Language Immersion course in the French Village exhibit higher levels of competence in French Language after their Immersion programme compared to the few who still travel out of the country for the same programme, the establishment of the French Village has saved the nation millions of dollar in forex,” Ayeleru said.