As efforts to actualise amendments of the International Health Regulation (IHR) gather steam, concerned groups have warned Nigeria and other countries not to embrace the move because the planned amendments will not strengthen the preparedness of the World Health Organisation (WHO) to respond to health emergencies, reports Associate Editor ADEKUNLE YUSUF Expectedly, many issues are up for discussion at the 75th World Health Assembly, holding in Geneva, Switzerland. Holding from May 22-28, it is the first in-person gathering of the apex law-making body of the World Health Organisation (WHO), since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic in 20220. The theme of this year’s Health Assembly is: ‘Health for peace, peace for health’. The World Health Assembly, the decision-making body of WHO, is attended by delegations from the  global body member states. Its focus is on the health agenda prepared by the Executive Board, with main functions to determine the policies of WHO, supervise financial policies, and review and approve the proposed programme budget, among others. At the ongoing meeting in Geneva, one major item attracting global attention is the proposed amendment to the International Health Regulations (IHR) 2005. The IHR is a legal agreement of 196 countries to build the capability to detect and report public health emergencies worldwide. It requires that  countries have the ability to detect, assess, report, and respond to public health events. The World Health Assembly first adopted IHR in 1969 to cover six diseases; though it has been revised multiple times. It may suffer another amendment at the meeting. However, Nigeria and other sovereign nations have been warned not to sign the proposed amendment of IHR 2005. Concerned groups led by Equity International Initiative said the IHR amendments have nothing to offer  in strengthening WHO’s preparedness for and response to health emergencies. The non-governmental organisation (NGO) said the amendment is a clandestine script for positioning WHO as a world government, legalising transfer of national sovereignty of nations to the United Nations (UN) agency. It accused the United States of submitting to the WHO a strange proposal to amend several Articles of the IHR, which are expected to be adopted by the 75th World Health Assembly. Equity International Initiative said: “Our conclusion is that Nigeria and indeed all sovereign nations should not sign up to this proposed amendment to the IHR. Should, for any reason, the leadership of the nation want to cast a second look at this proposal, same should be passed to the National Assembly for our elected representatives and the public to have a say on it as the clear implications of the text of this proposal has very troubling and far-reaching implications for the world at large and Nigeria in particular. “We must remember the ill-fated infectious disease bill ostensibly smuggled in from Singapore by the Nigerian lawmakers during the COVID-19 era under the influence of Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the WHO, which sought to transfer the powers granted only to the President to the Director of the Centre for Disease Control (CDC). These amendments to IHR are simply the amplified version of the failed Infectious Disease Bill. ‘’The people and government of every nation should do everything possible to stop the adoption of these amendments to the IHR.” The IHR, first adopted by the WHA in 1969 and last revised in 2005, are a legally binding rules that only apply to the WHO that is an instrument that aims for international collaboration “to prevent, protect against, control, and provide a public health response to the international spread of disease in ways that are commensurate with and restricted to public health risks and that avoid unnecessary interference with international traffic and trade.” The IHR is the only international legal treaty that empowers the WHO to act as the main global surveillance system. In 2005, following the 2002–2004 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) outbreak, several changes were made to the previous revised IHRs. The 2005 IHR came into force in June 2007, with 196 countries that recognised that certain public health incidents, extending beyond disease, ought to be designated as a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC), as they pose a significant global threat.   Sambisa State House     The Jibrils: Hell in the spoken word (2)     New anti-terrorism law   Its first application was in response to the swine flu pandemic of 2009. The WHO is the implementer of the IHR. Without doubt, in the about 15 years of the promulgation of the IHR, at no time has the use and abuse of the legal instrument been tested as was seen since 2020/2021 during the outbreak and aftermath of the COVID-19. However, according to critics, much as the nations were looking up to the WHO for leadership and policy direction in the global effort to contain the spread of the virus, many said signs began to emerge that the global body was leading a commercial endeavours by pharmaceutical conglomerates, non-state parties, the deep state and other non-state actors for the imposition and administration of hardly tested mixtures as vaccines as well mandating masks. The WHO was also accused of turning itself into a global agent of powerful Western capitalists whose only interest in the fight against COVID-19 was money and hegemonic domination and control of developing and third world nations. Unfortunately, the WHO has not done anything to discourage this thinking. Rather, evidence keeps emerging of the global organisation positioning itself into a world power with a huge authority over what happens within the sovereign territory of nations. The NGO added: “As the world is recovering from the disruptions and hardships caused by the WHO dictated measures implemented by different countries, the United States Permanent Mission to the WHO submitted to the WHO a strange proposal to amend several Articles of the IHR. Ordinarily, going by the title and introduction to the text of the proposal, one would be forgiven if it is assumed that the proposal is intended for the greater good of all and to genuinely prepare the world for future outbreaks of global infections. “However, reading in between the lines of the texts being smuggled into the IHR and the ones proposed to be deleted from the law, one would clearly see the inevitably transmutation of the WHO into a totalitarian body with authority to walk across international borders without regard to rules of national sovereignty on the pretext of fighting outbreak of infection of global concern.” It said the U.S. forwarded a proposal to amend Articles 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 18, 48, 49, 53 and 59 of the IHR 2005, by deleting text from the law and introducing new texts to it. The NGO said a study and review of the texts being removed from the law and the ones being introduced to the IHR  clearly show that these amendments have nothing to offer by way of ‘strengthening WHO’s preparedness for and response to health emergencies’ but a clandestine script for the positioning of the United Nations health agency as a world government and legalising the transfer of national sovereignty of nations to the WHO and a fortiori, those persons and organisations who sponsor and control it. One Article 9, Equity International Initiative said the amendment being made to the original text of this article proposes to remove requirement for the WHO to consult and obtain verification by nation where it is alleged that public health emergency of international concern has occurred before moving in or taking measures within or outside the country with respect to the alleged occurrence. This, no doubt, would be used by powerful nations and indeed, organisations to impose medicines, vaccines and measures on the citizens of nations that the people or their elected leaders are opposed to. On Article 10, the NGO said in the text proposed to be inserted into this section, it is made a matter of compulsion for a country to accept within 48 hours, an offer for collaboration and  provide requested information by the WHO on an allegation that a health emergency of international concern has occurred or may occur in the territory of a state party. “This proposed amendment automatically turns the WHO to a bully master of the affected nation. It is worryingly provided in the proposed amendment that a nation in which the WHO believes that a health emergency has occurred is given barely 48 hours to answer to queries from the WHO on the occurrence. This flies in the face of the sovereignty of the nations. Firstly, it is not possible to have such a response within the period of time provided and secondly and most worrisome is the fact that the nations and/or government are made answerable to the head of World Health Organisation.” On Article 10(4), it said by removing ‘may’ as it was used in the law and replacing it with ‘shall’ on the right of state party where health emergency is reported to the WHO to exist to accept an offer for collaboration or help from the WHO, the proponents of these amendments are set out to erode the powers of states to decide what health measures they allow on their citizens from the WHO and their agents and give the global body the power to side step political authority of nations in cases of alleged health emergencies. This same applies to Articles 11(2), 11(2) (e) and 11(3). On Article 12, Equity International said under the proposed amendment, the Director-General of the WHO would become a global emperor with powers to declare a health emergency in a  country even when its government has not made such determination or does not accept the report of the WHO on the occurrence, including allegations of potential occurrence. “This same vice is contained in the amendment in Article 12(4) (a),and the new articles 12(5) and (6) being proposed,” it added. On Articles 48, 49, 53, 59, the NGO said: “Just as observed above, the true intention of the inventors of the proposed amendments to the IHR is not the positioning of the WHO to better prepare to meet the challenges to future health emergencies, but to eliminate the international rule on national sovereignty and territorial integrity of nations, eradication of individual right to private life and right to decide what medication one receives for illness and also the dismantling of national boundaries making the world one open place for the WHO and its sponsors to practice their medicine merchandise.” Equity International Initiative said to sign up to these proposed amendments is for a nation to cede its sovereignty, security and rights of its citizens to the WHO and its head. It added that authority and sovereignty must reside with the people and their elected leaders.