The Federal Government has made provision of a N3bn Sukuk fund to finance the completion of the 103 kilometer Numan-Jalingo road in Adamawa and Taraba states this year. The government noted that the slow pace of work was due to the insufficient budgetary provision in the past and COVID-19 pandemic that affected the progress of work. According to a statement by the Deputy Director of Press and Public Relations at the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, Stephen Kilebi, the Minister of State for Works and Housing, Mr. Mu’azu Sambo, who made this known during his working tour concerning the rehabilitation of the road and other road projects in Taraba and Adamawa States, explained that as soon as the Sukuk fund is accessed, there would be remarkable progress at the construction site. He said: “The 103 kilometre Numan- Jalingo road is part of the Maiduguri –Calabar Highway. The section of the road that is not motorable  is not acceptable. The road is the only connection between the North and South on the North Eastern axis of the country.” Sambo stated the people of Taraba state are very appreciative and delighted with the 80 housing units commissioned in Taraba State by President Muhammadu Buhari, and they are very calm and happy with the ongoing works on township roads in Jalingo.   First Lady tasks Lagosians on mental healthcare     TotalEnergies may exit Nigeria’s onshore oilfields     Presidential primaries (2) PDP, Atiku and others   The statement added that the township roads, which include – Hassan, Yelwa and DSS, are three critical roads in Jalingo which have defied all the civilian administrations in Taraba State since 1999. He said, however, with the current  improved funding provision, the contractor  was expected to service its equipment and be more serious on the construction work, adding that if the company was found not to have the capacity to complete the job,  the government would not hesitate to terminate the contract and re-award it to a competent one. While briefing the Minister on the progress of work on the Numan-Jalingo road project, a Senior Civil Engineer at the site, Engr. Maria Kenneth Zirrah, representative of the Federal Controller of Works Adamawa State said insecurity, lack of construction materials and funding were responsible for the slow pace of work on the road project. Also, the Project Engineer of Deux Project Limited, the contractor for the road project, Engr. Frank Koshihuk, who spoke on behalf of the contractor, said inflation, funding and insecurity were the major challenges on the construction of the road. He however promised that as soon as the funding pattern for the rehabilitation works is improved, the work would be completed within eight months.