Bandits have attacked 93 Battalion of the Nigerian Army in Takum, Taraba State, killing six soldiers. One was declared missing. Police spokesman Abubakar Usman confirmed the report, saying the soldiers were on their way to repel an attack on Tati village in Takum council when they were ambushed by the bandits. Usman also confirmed that the commander of the operation was missing. Usman equally confirmed that a bomb exploded at the brigade headquarters although no one was killed in the blast. He said that the explosive device was thrown into the base by a passerby. A NAN correspondent who visited the scene reports that there was heavy military presence at the base and the entire road leading to the facility was barricaded, while a diversion was created to prevent movement close to the base.   Oil theft: Navy arrests 117 suspects, six vessels     Woman seeks justice after husband dies in police custody     Six killed, 42 injured in Damaturu rainstorm   The Senate yesterday bemoaned the recent killing of over 40 persons, including soldiers, by terrorists in the southern part of the state. This resolution followed a point of order by Senator Emmanuel Bwacha (Taraba South). He noted that the attackers came on motorbikes and killed over 40 people, including soldiers who were mobilised to protect the community. The chamber appealed to the Federal Government to direct the relevant agencies to provide relief materials to the victims of the attack. Senate President Ahmad Lawan called on Nigerians to support the military by providing the needed motivation and information to enable them tackle insecurity. Lawan said, “Here in the Senate and National Assembly, we have been appropriating funds for our armed forces, and I believe that this administration has provided more resources to them to fight the various forms and ramifications of insecurity in the country than any previous one. “I also want to urge all Nigerians to continue to support our armed forces because they are doing so much.”