Perennial rivals, Bayelsa Queens and reigning champions, Rivers Angels will open the second edition of the Nigeria Women’s Football League (NWFL) Premiership Super Six which starts on May 16th at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, Benin City. Bayelsa Queens finished the regular season atop Group B ahead of the league’s defending champions with both sides winning their home game 1-0 apiece. In the other games fixed for the opening day of hostilities also, Nasarawa Amazons will lock horns with NWFL Premiership debutants, Naija Ratels at the University of Benin Sports Complex in a repeat of the regular season in which the Lafia side secured a double over the Premiership newcomer. Nasarawa Amazons pipped Naija Ratels 1-0 in Abuja and they completed a double after they narrowly beat the same team 3-2 in Lafia in the last game of the regular season. Delta Queens and Edo Queens slugged it out in a south-South derby at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, Benin City also on the opening day of the Super 6 playoffs.   Aruna jumps into ITTF world rankings’ Top 10     Villarreal 2-3 Liverpool: Liverpool subdues Villarreal to…     Tulcan Energy Resources unveiled as NWFL Super Six sponsor   Naija Ratels vs Bayelsa Queens; Edo Queens vs Nasarawa Amazons and Rivers Angels’ duel with Delta Queens are the three games scheduled for the second day of the Super 6 playoffs on May 17th with the first and the last game billed for the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, Benin City while the second game comes up at the University of Benin Sports Complex. Nasarawa Amazons will face Delta Queens; Bayelsa Queens battle Edo Queens while Naija Ratels and Rivers Angels are billed to square up. The three games take place on May 19. Delta Queens vs Bayelsa Queens; Rivers Angels vs Nasarawa Amazons and Edo Queens vs Naija Ratels are the fixtures for the fourth Matchday of hostilities slated for May 20th . On the final day of the Super 6 playoffs, Bayelsa Queens will face Nasarawa Amazons; Naija Ratels trade tackles with Delta Queens while Edo Queens and Rivers Angels will slug it out also. The games are fixed for May 22nd.