A biography and a documentary brought him back to life. The book titled The Man, The Soldier, The Patriot and the film titled Ibrahim Attahiru, A Soldier’s Soldier drew attention not only to his life but also the implications of his death. Perhaps he could have made a big difference to Nigeria’s war against terrorism. But Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru tragically died in a military plane crash, in May 2021, four months after he became Chief of Army Staff. He was 54. Ten other military men flying with him from Abuja to Kaduna also perished when the Nigerian Air Force aircraft crashed near Kaduna International Airport. There were no survivors, but his deeds survived the crash. It was remembrance time on May 21, and the General Ibrahim Attahiru Foundation (GIAF), established by his widow, Fati Attahiru, presented the biography and documentary at the Ladi Kwali Hall, Sheraton Abuja Hotel. ”I was invited to write the book by General Ibrahim Attahiru Foundation, and now, with the benefit of hindsight, I feel very privileged to have been invited to do the book because I didn’t know General Attahiru beyond what I read about him in the media until his passing,” the author Niran Adedokun said at the event. “By the time I started doing the book, I discovered that he was indeed a true Nigerian hero whose life inspired a lot of people, and I find it a privilege to have been invited to document his life in such a way that everyone who reads will find inspiration about Nigeria.” According to the author, “he seemed to have the determination; he seemed to know what to do about security in Nigeria.” This is the heart of the matter.  Increasing insecurity fuelled by terrorism, banditry and kidnapping, gives the impression that the military leadership and the political leadership do not know what to do to tackle the crisis, and lack the determination to deal with the problem. Interestingly, in March 2021, National Security Adviser Babagana Monguno was reported saying “huge sums of money” approved for the purchase of weapons were “missing” and the weapons “were not bought.” He later claimed he had been “quoted out of context.” In April 2021, when Lt. Gen. Attahiru finally honoured the invitation of the ad hoc committee of the House of Representatives investigating the government’s procurement of arms and ammunition from 2011, his response raised issues that are still pertinent. The takeaway then was that at least three former army chiefs, who preceded him, have a lot of explaining to do on the federal government’s purchase of weaponry since insecurity became a reality more than a decade ago. The committee was mandated to review the purchase, use and control of arms, ammunition and related hardware by the military, paramilitary and other law enforcement agencies. Its chairman, Olaide Akinremi, was reported saying Nigeria spent about $47.387 million on arms in 2019. On the investigation, Lt. Gen. Attahiru told the committee to focus on his predecessors, saying he became army chief “barely two months” earlier.  He declared: “Issues of procurement that you so demand to know were done by specific individuals. I would rather you call these individuals to come and explain to you very specific issues.” His predecessors, relevant to the legislative investigation, were lieutenant generals Azubuike Ihejirika, Kenneth Minimah and Tukur Buratai. Ihejirika was army boss from September 2010 to January 2014, three years and four months; Minimah from January 2014 to July 2015, one year and six months; and Buratai from July 2015 to January 2021, five years and six months.   NDDC after Akpabio’s control     Who will rescue train attack captives?     Adieu, Alaafin Adeyemi III   Lt. Gen. Attahiru possibly implied that his predecessors should be held responsible for the ill-equipped armed forces inherited by the then new service chiefs, including him.  It is puzzling that the investigators did not act on his suggestion in order to get to the bottom of the matter. He emphasised to a senate committee that “the Nigerian army requires equipment, weapons, armour fighting vehicles, platforms, and various combat enablers,” which he called “critical needs.” There is no doubt that billions of naira was approved for procurement of weapons over the years. Claims by military personnel that the armed forces are poorly equipped to fight insecurity are not new. It is obvious that an ill-equipped military is a non-starter. Who shortchanged the military? Why has President Muhammadu Buhari, who is also the Commander-in-Chief of the Nigerian Armed Forces, failed to address the issue decisively? Apart from the army chiefs, other service chiefs in the period were the chiefs of air staff, air marshals Mohammed Dikko Umar, Alex Badeh, Adesola Amosu and Sadique Abubakar. The chiefs of naval staff were vice admirals O.S. Ibrahim, D.J. Ezeoba, U.O. Jibrin and Ibok-Ete Ekwe Ibas. Also, the chiefs of defence staff were Air Chief Marshal Oluseyi Peterin , Admiral Ola Ibrahim , Air Chief Marshal Alex Badeh and General Abayomi Olonisakin. Lt. Gen. Attahiru’s death anniversary prompts questions on the current capacity of the military, whether the fighters are now better equipped, or well equipped, to fight insecurity. About a month after he became army chief, he showed the stuff he was made of. During a visit to troops in Dikwa, Borno State, he was reported to have given them an order to recapture some areas held by Boko Haram within 48 hours. “Areas around Marte, Chikingudo, Kirenowa, up to Kirta Wulgo must be cleared in the next 48 hours… you must not let this nation down… I will be right behind you,” he was quoted as saying. The fighters recaptured the named communities. It is striking that under him the army renamed the operation against Boko Haram. Operation Lafiya Dole, launched in 2015, became Operation Hadin Kai in April 2021. He was theatre commander of Operation Lafiya Dole at one time.  The Hausa expression Lafiya Doye means peace by all means. Hadin Kai, another Hausa term, means cooperation/unity. Before Operation Lafiya Dole, there was Operation Zaman Lafiya, a Hausa term for peace. The war on terror has gone on for too long. It’s been more than a decade since the military launched its counter-insurgency operation, yet terrorists continue to terrorise the country. Tragically, it looks like a war without end. There are disturbing allegations that the war against terrorism has become an inspiration for corruption among military and political leaders; and those benefiting materially from it do not want the war to end. Lt. Gen. Attahiru believed that sustainable security depends on collaboration involving the people, police and armed forces, and the government. He advocated “the participation of the entire nation using all elements of national power.” This approach is worth adopting as the country grapples with increasing insecurity.