The push for a President of Southeast extraction received a major boost yesterday. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo and leader of the pan-Yoruba sociopolitical group, Afenifere, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, backed the advocacy by the Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide for the election of an Igbo of Southeast extraction as president next year. Obasanjo warned that jettisoning the power rotation principle would not augur well for unity. He reiterated that to ensure peace, justice, fairness and sustainable development, the next president must come from the Southeast. He added that the least acceptable minimum is a president from the South. The former President spoke when the Political Action Committee (PAC) of Ohanaeze visited him at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. Ohanaeze spokesman, Dr Alex Ogbonnia, in a statement, quoted Obasanjo as stressing the need for morality, equity and justice in a multi ethnic, multi religious and multi-cultural country as Nigeria. He added that it was inconceivable to have peace and progress in a country that is rooted in injustice. “Federal character, rotation of power and such other measures are meant to help our nation-building process and more sure-footedly, move Nigeria forward. “Riding over these measures rudely, shoddily and roughly cannot augur well for our nation-building process and progress,” Obasanjo was quoted as saying. The former president cited his speech on his 85th birthday, wherein he stated that “the major issue on hand is how to lift Nigeria from a country to a nation”. He recalled how his administration “adopted rotation and sharing formula for six key party political offices and government offices among the six geopolitical zones which stood the country and the party in good stead”. “It was the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) policy that made it inadvisable to have a candidate from the South to succeed me after my eight years in office as President,” he recalled. Obasanjo reminded Nigerians that he strived to ensure that he “was succeeded by President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua from the North”. Chief Adebanjo also endorsed the Southeast to produce the next president in 2023. Welcoming the Ohanaeze delegation to his Lekki home in Lagos, he accused some Southwest presidential aspirants of being propelled by power brokers in Aso Rock. He said it was part of a grand design to retain power in the North after Buhari’s tenure. He was quoted by Ohanaeze’s spokesman as describing as disgraceful the purported move by former President Goodluck Jonathan to take another shot at the Presidency. He lamented that the Northern politicians appear to be smarter than their Southern counterparts. The elder statesman restated his support for the Southeast to produce President Buhari’s successor.   Electoral Act: Amendment widens primaries participants     Presidency: no to tenure extension, interim government calls     Fed Govt gets COEASU’s 21-day ultimatum   “Now that it is the turn of the Southeast, they are propounding a new theory that the presidency must be based on merit and all that. “If it is the question of merit, till kingdom comes, the South alone will produce the president,” Adebanjo was quoted to have said. Obiozor commended Obasanjo and Adebanjo for their unwavering commitment to the peace and unity of Nigeria. He noted that any group that is repeatedly denied justice may never have an interest in peace. He added that Obasanjo remained one of the strongest voices in Nigeria and one of the most respected Nigerians in the world because of his track record of accomplishments while his tenure lasted as the President of Nigeria. Obasanjo had on March 13 denied endorsing any Southeast candidate for the 2023 presidential election. His Special Assistant on Media, Kehinde Akinyemi, in a statement, accused a presidential aspirant Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa Ohuabunwa of putting words in Obasanjo’s mouth after a visit. The Imeobi, the highest decision-making organ of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide had on May 5 in Enugu mandated PAC to reach out to the leaders of the six geopolitical zones for collaboration to ensure that an Igbo of the Southeast extraction is elected the president next year. The Ohanaeze delegation to the Southwest comprises its President-General Prof George Obiozor, Secretary General Okey Emuchay, former President Generals Chief Nnia Nwodo and Prince Gary Igariwey; Prof Anya O. Anya, Chief S. N. Okeke and Dr. Ogbonnia. Also yesterday, a former All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) National Chairman, Senator Victor Umeh, said that a Southeast president would reposition the country for greatness. He noted that a president of Southeast extraction would avert the country’s disintegration. Addressing reporters at his Aguluzoigbo country home in Anaocha Local Government Area in Anambra State, he described 2023 as the best time for the Southeast geopolitical zone to produce the president based on the power rotation principle. He said if aspirants like a former Anambra State Governor, Peter Obi, would be allowed to become the president, he would turn around the economy from consumption to a production one. He said: “2023 is a year that the Southeastern part of Nigeria should produce the president for the interest of a united nation, justice and to forestall disintegration. “Southeasterners have qualified, competitive people that can provide leadership to Nigeria at the highest order. “Ndigbo are highly capable of managing and reengineering the economy of Nigeria. “One of the problems of Nigeria is bad leaders and mismanagement of the economy. “Igbo people, as wealth creators and managers of resources, if given the chance will be good for all.” While listing Nigeria’s challenges, including distrusts, agitations, insecurity, high cost of living, educational collapse and other myriads of problems, Umeh added that Igbo had been marginalised in all sectors.