Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, enjoined Muslim faithful to continue to hold on to the piety and spiritual elevation attained during the fasting. Abiodun also urged the people to celebrate with moderation and ensure they share with the less privileged. Abiodun also called on government, parents, guardians, school administrators, religious leaders and other stakeholders to unite and chart a new course to harness the raw energies of youths towards positive enterprise. According to him, parents must take up their jobs as parents and appreciate the fact that they have the divine responsibility for the proper upbringing of children as the entire process of socialisation starts from the home.” Osun Governor State Adegboyega Oyetola prayed Allah to accept all acts of worship and supplications of the Muslim faithful during the Ramadan.   IG orders security at prayer grounds, others     Sanwo-Olu, Obasa urge peaceful co-existence, spirituality     Fake Muslims behind senseless killings, says CAN   He also admonished Muslim not to forget the significance of Ramadan, but carry on with its numerous lessons and virtues. “May we all enjoy a blessed and peaceful Eid. It is my prayer that Allah blesses us with the opportunity to witness many more of it in sound health. I also pray Allah accept all our acts of worship and supplications in this month. I enjoin us not to forget the significance of the holy and spiritually-rejuvenating month, and carry on with its numerous lessons and virtues that it has come to teach and remind us. Let us continue to demonstrate the lessons of Ramadan in our daily activities and dealings with others…” Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde called on Muslims to sustain prayers for the state and its leaders. The governor prayed Allah to accept their worship and keep them all alive and healthy to witness the next Ramadan. Makinde noted that though Ramadan was over, Muslim faithful must continue to practise the lessons learnt in the Holy Month by remaining close to Allah, and denying the self in submission to His will. He said: “I want to charge them that though the Ramadan is over, their commitment to the ideals of prayers, selflessness and service should not wane, as these are values that can make our society a better place. Please, do not relent in your prayers for Oyo State and its leadership and your support for our administration. We believe it is in doing these that we all can derive joy and bring about a better Oyo State.”