The Federal Government has approved new equipment procurement contracts for the Nigeria Air Force (NAF). President Muhammadu Buhari stated this in Kano yesterday during the ceremonial parade to commemorate the 58th anniversary of NAF. He lauded the Air Force for living up to its constitutional responsibilities of securing the nation. According to a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, the President noted that the excellent performances by the officers and airmen/airwomen in the ongoing war had justified the investments of the government of the day in the force. The President noted the provision of modern equipment, such as the Super Tucanos and the Augusta helicopter gunships, among others, had helped turn the tide in the fight against terrorists. He assured that the administration would continue to provide more platforms to modernise the armed forces.   IG mourns AIG Don Awunah     Dismissed policeman gets life imprisonment for defiling…     Traders ‘re-occupy distressed building despite court order’   “To this end, we have approved the procurement of more platforms such as the Beechcraft, some modern helicopter gunships and UAV for the Nigerian Air Force, to enable it to man our airspace more effectively. “Rest assured that as a government, we are willing to do even more to ensure the provision of the requisite support and encouragement to overcome various security challenges,” he said. Also yesterday, President Buhari met the families of victims of the explosion in Kano to express his condolences and that of the nation. He described the incident as unfortunate. The family members, accompanied by various community leaders resident in Sabon Gari Kano, including Chief Nicholas Ibekwe, the Eze Igbo, were assembled at the Palace of the Emir, His Royal Highness Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero for the meeting with the President. The President said he was “extremely pained by the loss of lives and injury to many due to the explosion”. He added: “My thoughts and that of the nation are with the bereaved families. I hope the injured will recover fully at the earliest possible time.”