THE 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination and Direct Entry commenced on Friday nationwide on a smooth note with Computer Based Test (CBT) centres operators commending the board for the improved measures put in place for the conduct of the examination. Some of the centre operators said there were improvements on the first day of the exercise as against some of the technical challenges, especially the biometric verification experienced last year. However, many candidates missed the examination as a result of the early downpour in some parts of Lagos. The candidates scheduled for the first session at 7.00 a.m. were mostly affected by the downpour, with some arriving late and were denied entry. About 1,761,338 registered for both the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) and DE nationwide. The examinations, which are being conducted in 750 CBT centres approved by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, will end on May 16, 2022. When our reporter visited the WILLSTROM Limited CBT centre located at Mambilla Barracks,  Asokoro FCT, candidates and parents were seen hanging around the centre, waiting to take part in the examination as early as 6 am. The Centre Administrator,  Nwosu Ernest said the centre was approved to run three sessions a day. Ernest said 244 took part in the first session and 246 for the second session. He said: By this time last year, almost six centres in FCT had issues on the first day of the examination. This year it is only one and it is from the centre not on JAMB’s side. He said JAMB has really improved as the biometric hitches were minimal. A candidate who wrote in the first session at the centre described the conduct of the examination as “smooth.”   AfDB secures $15.6b investment for construction of…     Aviation fuel: domestic carriers threaten to shut down…     Over 5,000 nurses have left Nigeria in three years –…   At Airmax Computer Institute, Madalla, Niger State, the examination went smoothly. Owner of the CBT centre, Engr Emmanuel Ehikwe commended the Registrar of JAMB, Prof Isahaq Oloyede for increasing the charges paid to CBT centres. Downpour: Candidates miss 2022 UTME session, appeal to JAMB Many candidates for the 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) in Lagos, on Friday, battled an early morning downpour to get to their centres as the 2022 examination got underway. According to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB)-organised examination began in some 750 accredited centres nationwide, with 1.7 million candidates registered to participate. In centres monitored in Lagos, candidates scheduled for the first session at 7.00 a.m. were mostly affected by the downpour, with some arriving late and being denied entry. Some of the candidates, who failed to meet up with their schedule, appealed to the JAMB’s management to look into the matter. One of the centre supervisors at the WTTC who did not want her name in print said that lateness to the examination centre was not allowed. Reacting to the plight of the candidates that missed the examination as a result of the rain,  Dr Fabian Benjamin, JAMB’s Head, Protocol and Public Affairs Officer, expressed sadness at the development. He said the exams would not be rescheduled. The UTME, which started on Monday, will run until May 16, with several sessions daily at the accredited centres,” he said.