A senatorial aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos West District, Dr. Kayode Opeifa, has reiterated his fidelity to the doctrine of party supremacy and discipline. He said the contest should not be perceived as a do-or-die by any contender, urging aspirants and their supporters not to rupture the peace and tranquillity of the zonal chapter. Opeifa, former university teacher, rights activist and one-time Transport Commissioner in Lagos State, noted that all the aspirants are eminently qualified to represent the largest district in the country. However, he said the push for gender balance in the distribution of the senatorial slots in the Centre of Excellence is also reasonable, logical and convincing, stressing that the agitation cannot be ignored. Opeifa, who spoke on the phone with our correspondent, said the peace of the party is sacrosanct, adding that it cannot be compromised. Opeifa stressed that only a single aspirant can be presented as a candidate for the district at a time, urging stakeholders to defer to the wisdom of the party leadership. He said the innovative approach to the selection of candidates, based on the criteria of equity, fairness and justice, which will reaffirm the Lagos APC as a model, is in tandem with the vision of the party for inclusion and sustenance of a sense of belonging. The former commissioner said since the Lagos APC leadership has never made a mistake in the choice of standard-bearers with dare consequences in the past, any choice borne out of its rich experience and foresight will be in the party’s interest. Opeifa also called for sacrifice and strategic understanding on the part of senatorial stakeholders, saying that the elevation of party interest over personal agenda constitutes the making of a loyal party man.   Monkey pox: WHO raises alert over increasing cases in…     Peter Obi joins Labour Party     2023: Court declares Jonathan competent to contest   In apparent references to the evergreen admonition of the indomitable sage, the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo, to party faithful in the past, Opeifa urged aspirants to rekindle their belief in the assurance that there will be accommodation for them within the larger collective in terest of the party if they defer to the collaborative, joint and shared agenda of the Lagos APC. In his view, the quest for party tickets should be approached with decorum, maturity, self-control, restraint and decency to avert the slide to disunity and weakening of party structures ahead of the general election. He added: “Nobody is bigger than our cherished party, the progressive platform that is now standing the test of time. Political participation is human liberty, but if the pursuit of aspiration will escalate division and prolong tension in the party, it has become a blind ambition. I am inclined to the pursuit of party survival instead of “ambition by all means and at all costs.” Opeifa admonished contestants to learn from the highly commendable humble dispositions of numerous party chieftains who have remained steadfast to the big platform and kept hope alive, despite the fact that they have never become beneficiaries of tickets, elective mandates and government appointees. Opeifa said although competition and antagonism may characterise the scramble for political power, there should be limitations, adding that the ethics of moderation advocates that a sensible balance should be maintained in all human pursuits. He enjoined the party leadership to broaden and strengthen the channels of intra-party communication for the purposes of eliciting concessions, establishing consensus, building accord and solidifying cohesion. A party source, however, said that Opeifa has not withdrawn from the race, saying that his supporters are growing in geometric proportions. The source said: “We are in the race. But, we will not engage in anti-party activities.”