The Police Command in Ekiti state, on Saturday paraded no fewer than 37 suspects arrested at different locations in the state for offences ranging from alleged armed robbery, cattle rustling, theft and cultism between March and May. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Sunday Abutu, parading the suspects at the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) headquarters in Ado-Ekiti, said the feat was achieved following the renew onslaught to rid the state of criminal elements. Abutu said that on March 31, at about 16:00 hrs, a gang of armed hoodlums, numbering about nine, accosted one Sani Mamuda, a Fulani herdsman who was rearing his cattle along Eruku/Itapaji forest. He said the hoodlums in the process and at gun point rustled 35 cattles from Mamuda, while he managed to escape from the scene. Abutu said investigations by the RRS team led to the arrest of Dairu Adamu, Usman Saidu and Nura Usman, who were alleged to be notorious kidnappers and cattle rustlers. Abutu said the command’s efforts to rid the state of criminals also paid off with the arrest of one Omotoyinbo Samuel, popularly called Eleven, along other conspirators. According to him, the criminals are suspected to have robbed a new generation bank at Iyin-Ekiti in the year 2020. Abutu said that Samuel, who claimed to be a member of the supreme Eiye confraternity, was arrested in Lagos State. Explaining what led to the arrest of Samuel, Abutu said: “On March 29, at about 23:00hrs, a gang of armed men numbering about six stormed Maxwell Hospital, Nova Road, Ado-Ekiti. “The hoodlums, at gun point, robbed Dr Ojo Emmanuel, Balogun Ahmed and other staff and patients in the Hospital of their belongings such as mobile phones, laptops, wedding ring and N50,0000 cash. “Upon their departure from the Hospital, the armed robbers also hijacked one Toyota Corolla car valued at N3 million, from Dr Ojo Emmanuel. “Further investigation led to the arrest of one Lasisi Afeez, a.k.a Yemi SARS, and one Itel phone, belonging to one of the victims which was carted away from the scene of crime, was found in his possession. “During interrogation, the suspect confessed to be among the armed robbers that robbed the hospital alongside Samuel, a.k.a Eleven, Ajewole Peter, a.k.a Peter Ifaki, and Ladele, who is currently at large. “Further investigation led to the arrest of one Ilesanmi Seun, a.k.a Adere, who supplied a locally-made cut to size single barrel gun and three cartridges to the gang for the operation. “Investigation also led to the arrest of Samuel on March 5, in Lagos by the Command’s RRS operatives, alongside his wife, Omotoyinbo Omowumi. “Samuel, who was the leader of the gang, confessed to committing the crime that took place in Maxwell Hospital, Ado-Ekiti. “He admitted that he started armed robbery in 2015. “He mentioned one Fadairo Oyindamola Samuel, a.k.a Rochie, Akinleye Seyi, a.k.a Erin, Samuel Omoiku Yeye, Orio, Ose, Tunji, Tunde, Amidu and M.K., who were earlier arrested and are currently in correctional custody, as members of his gang. “Samuel confessed further that he was among the armed robbery gang that attacked Wema bank, Iyin-Ekiti, in 2020.   Gunmen kill police orderly, abduct LG chairman     Sentenced Dane always abused murdered wife – judge     I was lured into commercial s3x work in Libya by…   “He mentioned one Afe Ayodeji, a.k.a Yeye, Adejumo Kehinde, a.k.a Orio, and Ardinoi Samuel, a.k.a. Samuel Ebira, as members of his syndicate who are based in Abuja and Ondo State. “He also confessed that he and his gang members were the ones who kidnapped a Chinese expatriate at a construction site in new Iyin road, Ado-Ekiti, in 2020. “The suspect said that his wife was fully aware of his criminal activities and that most of the money he had been making were given to her for her upkeep. “Effort is underway to arrest other members of the gang,” the PPRO said. The command’s image maker said the command’s Rapid Response Squad (RRS) also on May 28, at about 8:00hrs, acting on a tip-off, swooped on a criminal hideout in Ikole-Ekiti where suspected cult members were holding their initiation. He listed those arrested as Alayerogun Taiwo, Fatoye Ayomide, Ogunsakin Sikiru, Oluwadare Femi, Bimbola Samuel, Afolabi Anuoluwapo, Adelola Adedeji, Ogundola Bamidele and Adeyemo Timilehin. Others are; Johnson Believe, Kolawole Akeem, Babalola Ayomide, Fanimo Gbenga, Awoyemi Bunmi, Charles Aleba, Thomas Ayomide, Obanla Tayo and Anjorin Ayodeji. Abutu said the suspects, during interrogation, confessed to be members of Aiye secret confraternity and participated in the killing of one Ajayi Sunday, a.k.a Ibadan, and Owolabi Ayoola Moses on March 6, in Oye-Ekiti. He listed items recovered from them as: one cut to size single barrel gun, two cutlasses and 10 suspected stolen motorcycles which they were using in carrying out their nefarious activities. Abutu said efforts are ongoing to arrest other fleeing suspects. The Police spokesperson said the command also bursted a syndicate of armed robbers, who specialises in snatching motorcycles at gun points and selling them to receivers in Ondo and Zamfara States. He said the Command operatives also arrested two suspected cultists who attacked two students of Ekiti State University on March 15. Abutu said the suspects who were in possession of dangerous weapons such as guns, axes and cutlasses, attacked their victims at their apartment in Recilian Hostel, Iworoko-Ekiti. “They inflicted varying degrees of injury on them while their apartment windows and gates were badly damaged. Abutu expressed the command’s appreciation to members of the public, especially the good spirited members of the public, whose useful and timely information supplied led to the breakthroughs. He acknowledged the support and cooperation of the military, the DSS and other security agencies, including the Amotekun, Vigilantees and the local Hunters in the fight against crimes and criminalities in the State. Abutu also appreciated the media for the constant partnership and the display of professionalism. This, he said, had strengthened the peaceful atmosphere currently enjoyed across the State. “He urged the residents to continue to be law abiding citizens, be conscious, vigilant and report any adverse incident or happening around your environs to the nearest Police Station or call 08062335577. (NAN)