The disbursement of direct intervention funds to public universities, polytechnics and colleges of education has started, the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund), confirmed yesterday. President Muhammadu Buhari approved the cash to lift the institutions. Under the 2022 interventions, the Federal Government allocated N642,848,138.00 to each varsity, N396,780,086.00 to each polytechnic and N447,758,804.00 to each Colleges of Education. The allocation papers were presented yesterday to heads of the benefitting at the National Universities Commission (NUC), Abuja by the Executive Secretary of TETFUND, Sunny Echono. Echono noted that the desire to develop human capital to service the various sectors of the Nigerian economy, primarily informed the government’s investment in the education sector. He said the government was not unmindful of the deficit and decay in the tertiary sub-sector, noting that it also informed the establishment of the TETFund; which was initially referred to as Education Tax Fund in 1993 and later metamorphosed into Tertiary Education Trust Fund in 2011. The executive secretary lamented the instances of distressed or non-performing projects which, according to him, were becoming rampant and disturbing.   Operators, don seek removal of 5% duty on recharge cards     NIMASA seeks harmonisation of Port State Control to improve…     ‘Lagos consumes N328b worth of cow meat yearly’   He noted that TETFund had about seven non performing/distressed projects in University of Port Harcourt, six in Enugu State University, five in University of Nigeria, Nsukka, four in Taraba State University and University of Calabar as well as four in Kaduna State University and one at Alvan Ikoku College of Education. Echono said: “This phenomenon becomes even more worrisome, when viewed alongside the problem of un-accessed funds We are mindful of the intricate variables in project management and delivery as well as the constraints created by our own internal policies and are ensuring that we review our processes where required but will also demand from beneficiary institutions accountability and sanctions where needed. “I will in the coming weeks be engaging beneficiary institutions who have these serious problems with the view of bringing the projects to speedy completion and use.” Echono, who recently succeeded Prof Suleiman Bogoro as Executive Secretary of TETFund, pledged to boost the ICT capacity of the agency in order to ensure seamless operations. He said: “Upon assumption of office. I received briefings and presentations from all the departments of the Fund on the status of their various activities. This was to enable me assess the level of progress and to see if there are issues that needed to be addressed urgently. “One of our primary areas of focus is digital literacy and the development and deployment of information and communication technology (ICT), including ubiquitous broadband and data connectivity/access to our institutions to enhance our ICT capabilities. “This informed my visit to the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy to discuss possibilities and collaboration on our interventions and other needs in our tertiary institutions presently, the ICT department has embarked on several projects that include; dematerialisation and digitalisation of thesis projects to aggregation of electronic databases subscription project among other innovations.”