Anxiety is mounting over the fate of statutory delegates. Will they participate in the governorship, parliamentary and presidential primaries this week? There is emphasis on statutory and ad hoc delegates for the one-day event because both the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have opted for the indirect mode or delegate option as against consensus and direct method. But the coast is not clear for the “automatic delegates.” The cloud of uncertainty over their eligibility is yet to fizzle out. The delegates to the primaries are yet to be properly defined. Time is of essence. It is running out. Although President Muhammadu Buhari has returned from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) where he had gone to commiserate with the government over the passage of its leader, there is no news about any assent to that aspect of the Electoral Act Bill. Even, if the president signs today, the parties cannot meet the time requirement. According to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) guidelines, parties are expected to submit the list of delegates, statutory and elected, seven days before the primaries. Governorship and House of Representatives primaries are slated for Thursday. The PDP presidential primary starts on Saturday. That of the ruling party kicks off on Sunday. Therefore, the deadline cannot be met. If the bill is signed today or tomorrow, it may be futile, unless INEC gives a nod to the request by the parties to shift the primaries. Smaller parties seem not to bother. They are anticipating implosion in the two major parties and defection to their platforms by aggrieved aspirants desperate for party flags. Many of them have fixed the choice of delegates for June. Last week, the big parties elected or selected ad hoc delegates across the wards and local governments. The lists of delegates, according to sources, were submitted to the electoral agency after the exercise. In few states, crisis erupted over the choice of delegates. It has not been resolved. If the President withholds assent to the bill, statutory delegates, including the President, vice president, governors, their deputies, principal officers of state and National Assembly, local government chairmen and some party leaders, will forfeit the privilege to vote. Only elected delegates will dictate the tune. Across many states, governors are in control of the elected delegates. There has been a sort of tension between the Presidency and the National Assembly over some provisions in the Electoral Act Bill. President Buhari had urged the National Assembly to amend a provision in the 1999 Constitution, saying that Section 84(12) of the Act was in virulent conflict with the ground norm. The legislators were reluctant.   Primaries: Govs, NASS members renew hostilities over…     SecureID CEO bags NPOM award     Zenith Labour Party mulls a change of name   If the president refuses to sign the bill, it means senators and Representatives, who appear to form the bulk of statutory delegates, will now be at the receiving end of the crisis. There are two implications. The manipulative power and domineering influence of the governors over the elected delegates will be strengthened. In contrast, not all statutory delegates can be swayed by governors. There is rivalry between governors and federal legislators in many states. The numerical number of the delegates expected to participate at the primaries would have been cut to a manageable size. Voting and counting of votes will be less herculean. The influential chieftains who are expected to be special delegates would have been excluded. If they had put themselves forward during the selection of delegates last week, majority of them would have been elected as delegates. Their exclusion will lead to a feeling of alienation. At the lower level, statutory delegates who are mobilisers at the grassroots may not be able to deploy their influence during the choice of parliamentary candidates in their constituencies. Few days ago, the leadership of the political parties contemplated the challenge, particularly the time constraint. They knew they would not be able to overcome the hurdle. Therefore, they approached INEC for postponement of the shadow polls. The commission refused, explaining that the schedule of activities cannot be altered, having fixed the timetable long ago. According to the constitution, the list of candidates should be submitted to the commission, 180 days to the election. This implies that parties still have a window of opportunity to sort themselves out till August. The party leaders were handicapped by the guidelines by the regulator. The schedule is too tight and the regulator is too strict. INEC has maintained its ground, thereby casting the political parties in the mould of parastatals of the commission. What is the way out? If INEC relaxes the time table, the primaries can be shifted to allow them meet the time requirement, in case the president is disposed to assenting to the bill. But INEC released the time table months ago. Why were the parties unable to work towards it? They were cut in the web of conflict between the President and the National Assembly. If INEC is adamant about its rigid schedule, the only option is for the parties to proceed with the primaries, bearing in mind that only elected delegates will dominate the exercise.