Divisional Chief Executive Officer, ipNX Nigeria, Segun Okuneye, has said Nigeria requires additional 167,000 kilometres of fibre infrastructure to achieve its target of fifth generation (5G) network and ubiquitous broadband penetration. To meet the broadband targets and those of the future with advanced connectivity such as the fifth-generation network, he said: “The nation needs between 120,000 to 167,000 kms of fibre infrastructure, in addition to the existing 55,000 km.” Okuneye made this submission at a forum dedicated to the National Policy on the Fifith Generation Network for Nigeria’s Digital Economy, which ipNX co-sponsored. He noted that the critical link between undersea cables that conveys huge connectivity capacity into the country and the end users is the fibre sub-sector, where ipNX Nigeria is a major player. According to him, “Nigeria needs three times more fibre infrastructure than it currently has to attain about 90 per cent broadband penetration among others by 2025.” He said backhauling is a major dependent requirement to express the inherent value from the 5th generation network. This, according to him, is required for accessing traffic aggregation which involves capacity and scalability; as well as transportation in high-speed, low latency, high quality that guarantees reliability. He said: “Increased speeds with lower attenuation, immunity to electromagnetic interference, small size, and virtually unlimited bandwidth potential are among the many reasons why fiber is the right choice when compared to other backhauling technologies.” Okuneye said it is important to lay fibre to potential small and macro cells, wherever and whenever possible and existing cell sites. “This is a critical preparatory step if these cell sites are to be upgraded to 5G in the coming years,” he said. As much as the ipNX boss underscored the key roles of fibre in 5G deployment, he also identified potential challenges to successful Role-Out of 5G, from fibre perspective. He bemoaned low levels of Fiber Optic Infrastructure, noting that nationally, fibre optic cable infrastructure deployment is insufficient and mostly available in a few cities and urban areas.   Money technology and rise of digital currencies     B2B e-commerce: connecting digital brick, mortar divide     Nigeria’s sea of ‘redundant’ submarine cables   Factors contributing to this, according to him, include the issues of vandalism and damage to existing fiber infrastructure from road construction. He further listed Right of Way (RoW), as a long-standing challenge to telecoms infrastructure roll-out over the years. He stated that high RoW fees continue to hinder the deployment of telecommunications infrastructure in Nigeria. “The proposed Unified RoW is yet to be accepted by several states and their agencies, and as they continue to administer RoW differently with financial demands, this poses major challenges to operators’ roll out plans. “This is in addition to the divergent policies and inability to obtain R0W permits from the various states,” he lamented. Okuneye also identified access to forex as another cog in the wheel of fibre roll-out for 5G and ubiquitous broadband. He noted that the telecoms industry in Nigeria relies heavily on foreign equipment manufacturers and imported technical expertise for deployment and maintenance of networks. “The cost and process of accessing forex still remains a major challenge to the fibre sub-sector operators, and this could further create a setback for 5G deployment. “In addition, operators are still experiencing security challenges, sometimes leading to the temporary shutdown of telecom services – caused by Infrastructure vandalism, thefts, and community issues. Hence, security will continue to be a challenge if not effectively tackled,” he said. Okuneye called for innovative regulations and stakeholder management, adding that multiple taxation and duties should also be addressed to relieve their impacts on importation of passive and active infrastructure. ”Therefore, the fibre platform and sub-sector operators will continue to play an important role in 5G implementation. The platform will be a key driver to enjoy the intended gain of the Digital Economy and Transformation in Nigeria and to attain the goal of the National Broadband Plan “The Fibre sub-sector operators in Nigeria are in dire need of government intervention to address the myriad of challenges facing the sector such as high interest rates, limited access to foreign exchange, high taxation, steep cost of Right-of-Way permits, denial of permits for infrastructure roll-out, damage to infrastructure, unstable power supply and others. “The application of interventionist policies will further help the fibre sub-sector to effectively play its role in the successful implementation of 5G in Nigeria,” he said.