The candidate of the Action Democratic Party(ADP) for the June 18 governorship poll in Ekiti, Engr. Kemi Elebute-Halle, has downplayed the defection of his running mate Idowu Afuye, to the ruling All Progressive Congress(APC). Elebute-Halle said that Afuye’s defection was inconsequential and poses no threat to ADP’s bright chances to form the next government, stressing the party has become a household name and the first choice of Ekiti people. Afuye last week dumped the ADP for the governing APC alongside his teeming supporters, citing lack of clear-cut vision and display of undemocratic tendencies by the party’s governorship candidate. But, while addressing journalists in Ado-Ekiti on Sunday, Elebute-Halle dismissed reasons cited by Afuye for jumping ship, saying he left the party in exchange for political tokenism which was offered him by the APC. She described Afuye’s exit from the party as a blessing with no negative electoral implication on her governorship ambition because her estranged running mate has been a clog in the wheel of her quest to rescue Ekiti from the shackles of poverty, insecurity and underdevelopment. The female politician narrated how Afuye had plotted to undermine the ADP, even in his council area, adding that the party leadership had kept him incommunicado before he finally announced his exit from the party. She added said that the kind of attention and reception accorded Afuye ,who she described as a paper weight by the APC clearly showed that the ruling party was a desperate and sinking, struggling to stay afloat.   South East APC groups working on consensus presidential…     I’ll do what Gbajabiamila is doing in Lagos for my…     2023: PDP’S presidential contenders and pretenders   She disclosed that top ranking leaders of APC had approached her to join the party which she said were rebuffed despite the tempting offers, noting her ambition was motivated by uncompromising resolve to take Ekiti state out of the doldrums and not for personal aggrandizement. “I have invested so much time and huge resources into the race such that there is no place for being a sell out. I will never betray confidence my supporters repose in me, even if I would be the only one to vote for myself on the day of election “. Speaking further on Afuye’s defection, she said: “Up till now, it is a speculation. My deputy governorship candidate is yet to formally leave the party. He only quit the party but not resigned. We are yet to be informed about this. “Whatever he has done, it is deemed to be done under duress and for political reason. Those who pushed him into it, failed to recognise the fact that, the moment one is enlisted in the INEC published list, there is no going back. “Afuye still remains deputy governorship candidate of the party until the electoral act decides otherwise. I hope he will trace his steps back to ADP. If he really want to leave, he mist follow the process as dictated by the electoral law. I am sure APC is aware of this. “So, if it is not politically expedient and permissible, he will not go scot free, if not the status quo remains”. On the claim by Afuye that he left ADP to APC with 20,000 supporters, she said: “Afuye brought only himself to ADC and left only with himself. He never brought anybody to the party and nobody went with him.”