World Hypertension Day, on May 17, drew attention to rising cases of the condition in Nigeria. Introduced in 2005 to raise global awareness of hypertension, the day is important because it helps to spread useful information on the potentially fatal condition.  The theme this year was ‘Measure your blood pressure accurately, control it, live longer.’ As the day was observed in the country, there was alarming news that about 80 million Nigerians are living with hypertension, and about 26.7milion of them receiving treatment. The large number of those not receiving treatment, more than 50 million, is a cause for concern. So is the overall number of those affected. Executive Director of Nigerian Heart Foundation (NHF), Dr Kingsley Akinroye, who gave these figures, said between 30 and 40 per cent of the population were affected. Nigeria’s population is about 216 million. He added that about one in three adults suffers from hypertension. Also known as high blood pressure, hypertension is a condition in which the blood vessels have persistently raised pressure, or in which the force of the blood against the artery walls is too high. Ideally, blood pressure is 120/80 mmHg.  Any figure higher than 140 mmHg for systolic blood pressure and 90 mmHg for diastolic blood pressure, that is, above 140/90, is regarded as hypertension. It is often without symptoms and, if untreated or uncontrolled, can lead to stroke, heart attack, kidney failure, heart failure, and other health complications. Many of those with hypertension are said to be unaware, which creates a situation in which many cases are untreated or uncontrolled. Medical experts blame the rise in hypertension in the country on a number of factors, including unhealthy diet (red meat, high salt intake and low consumption of green leafy vegetables), sedentary lifestyle and lack of exercise, obesity, smoking and air pollution , increase in cholesterol levels, excessive alcohol consumption, stress and inadequate night sleep. These identified factors show the importance of personal responsibility in preventing hypertension. People must pay greater attention to their way of life.   Primaries not parodies     Nigeria’s next president deserves pity     Terror in the name of God   Non-preventable factors include: family history, inheritance from parents, pregnancy, age, gender, and race. Poverty and anxiety are also listed as factors. Insecurity too has been blamed for increasing cases of hypertension in the country. The authorities should be concerned about the health consequences of the country’s security crisis and poor socio-economic conditions. Unfortunately, there is no proven cure for hypertension. This is why prevention is better than cure. People should regularly check their blood pressure. It is reassuring that treatment can lower blood pressure that is too high, and mild hypertension can be brought under control through lifestyle changes. According to the President of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Prof. Innocent Ujah, “The reality is that it is a common disease and a silent killer. It is not a death sentence but can be controlled with regular check-up, lifestyle changes and medication.” Availability of healthcare facilities and access to treatment are crucial in managing hypertension. It has been argued that health insurance coverage for hypertension treatment, subsidising medication cost, and provision of free generic medications through collaboration between government and pharmaceutical companies will improve access. Increasing high blood pressure awareness is vital towards reducing the burden of hypertension in the country. A survey by the NHF showed that awareness of hypertension is more in the urban areas, and more among women.  This means there may be a greater need to target rural areas and men in public enlightenment campaigns. It is important to reach the more than 50 million Nigerians said to be living with untreated or uncontrolled hypertension, and help them to possibly live longer. This is the right response.