Management and staff of the Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital (FNHE), Enugu State, have lauded the Federal Government for the deliberate funding of the hospital. The workers, who spoke during the third anniversary of the Medical Director, Prof. Monday Igwe, said the investment has led to the development and expansion of services at the hospital. Igwe, who addressed a news conference yesterday, gave an account of his stewardship. He said the government’s support to reposition the institution and psychiatric healthcare delivery was unprecedented. He thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for the COVID-19 intervention projects ‘which have changed the institution’s narrative for the positive’. The medical director listed about 40 projects, programmes and training executed in the last three years. He noted that the greatest achievement was the restoration of peace and harmony between management and various cadres of staff in the hospital.   ‘Zone presidential ticket to South’     Edo APC to members: resolve disputes with internal…     ‘Stop paying pension through contractors’   “Water remains a big challenge as we have to buy water used by staff and patients daily. Another challenge is that of distraction by faceless, baseless, unverifiable and fictitious online publications,” he said. Chairman of the Joint Health Sector Union (JOHESU) Comrade Friday Odobu noted that there has been a lot of infrastructural development in the hospital under Prof. Igwe. “These are evidence of the peaceful atmosphere in the hospital. The new management team sees the welfare of workers as paramount,” he said. Odobi advised aggrieved workers to re-examine themselves and check if they were bridging due process. “But as a leader of the workers, I call tell you that the workforce is happy with the management under Prof. Igwe. Service delivery to patients is adequate. Can you imagine that the 2022 promotions have been done and fully implemented in last month’s salary and even the arrears of January to March paid alongside,” Odobu added.