The Ayanwola family has applied to the Lagos State Attorney General for fiat to prosecute a BRT driver, Andrew Nice Ominikoron, the alleged killer of their late daughter, Bamise Ayanwole Independently. Their application was filed through their counsel, Adesina Ogunlana of the Don’t Quit Chamber. Ominnikoron allegedly raped and murdered Bamise on a BRT vehicle in February after the deceases boarded the BRT bus at Lekki. In March, the State Government arraigned Andrew Nice Ominnikoron on a four-count charge of rape and murder before Justice Sherifat Solebo of the Lagos High Court, Tafawa Balewa Square Annex, Lagos Island. He pleaded not guilty to the charges. Hearing is scheduled to formally begin next Monday. But the family’s counsel, Adesina Ogunlana, in a letter to the Lagos Attorney General dated May 4, 2022 stated that the Ayanwola family, “has formally expressed their wish to have a more independent body to conduct the prosecution,” Ogunlana said the family is concerned that the state government also included in the charges against Andrew Nice, another incident, separate from that of Bamise’s, a situation they believe may complicate their case. The letter to the Lagos Attorney General titled: “Application for fiat to prosecute the murder charge of Lagos State Vs Andrew Nice Ominnikoron” was signed by Ogunlana, a former Chairman of Nigerian se Association (NBA) Ikeja Branch and Ayodele Ademiluyi.   BREAKING: NERC approves tariff increase for DisCos     BREAKING: Buhari commissions King David University in Ebonyi     Nigeria, U.S., Russia, Iraq, six others account for…   The letter stated in part: “We have been briefed by the family of late Bamise Ayanwola, the young lady murdered on February 26, 2022 aboard a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) vehicle to act as their solicitors. “We have their further instructions to apply to your office for Fiat to prosecute the criminal charge preferred against one Andrew Nice Ominikoron presently before Hon. Justice Serifat Sonaike of the Lagos State High Court. “The family has formally expressed their wish to have a more independent body to conduct the prosecution in the circumstances of the matter. “In their view, Lagos State Government, agency and officials are involved in the matter and may not be reasonably expected to act as the prosecutor adequately against themselves. “Please find attached copies of their letter of instructions to our firm and organization, the Radical Agenda Movement in the Nigerian Bar Association [RAMINBA]. “In addition, the family is concerned that the charges against the defendant also include allegations of rape of another person, an incident distinct and separate from that of their deceased family member. “This situation may result in unnecessary complication. “We look forward to a positive and timeous consideration of our request.”