Over the years, some major landmarks in Lagos have been renamed in honour of eminent personalities or to meet new realities. While some renaming moves did not see the light of the day, Lagos has recorded success with some attempts. The Lagos State Government, in 2019, renamed Onikan Stadium after Late Brig. Gen. Mobolaji Johnson (Rtd) in recognition of his illustrious service as the first military administrator of Lagos. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu announced the change of name during the Day of Tribute for Late Johnson at Onikan Stadium, Lagos Island. Onikan Stadium is now known as Mobolaji Johnson Arena. Bar Beach, back in the day, was one of the most visited places in the city, especially for fun-seekers. In 2003, the idea for a modern city on the Atlantic coast was publicly discussed; it would be sited on what used to be Bar Beach, out of reclaimed land.   I’m not married, Mr Macaroni declares     Anthony Joshua always my champion, says DJ Cuppy     Saint Square records unveils recording studio   Former Lagos Governor Akinwumi Ambode in 2016 commissioned Eko Atlantic which is a new coastal city being built on Victoria Island adjacent to Lagos, Nigeria. Standing on 10 million square metres of land reclaimed from the ocean and protected by an 8.5 kilometre long sea wall, Eko Atlantic will be the size of Manhattan’s skyscraper district. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in early 2022, assented to a bill converting the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH) to the University of Technology. The Nigerian Universities Commission (NUC) presented a certificate to that effect in February. LASPOTECH is now recognised as Lagos State University of Science and Technology (LASUSTECH). Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu also assented to another bill passed by the House of Assembly converting Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education (AOCOED) and Michael Otedola College of Primary Education (MOCOPED) to Lagos State University of Education (LASUED). The Lagos State Parks and Gardens Agency (LASPARK) in 2017 commissioned and renamed the Shasha Recreation Park in Alimosho as Rafiu Bakare Jafojo Park to boost the number of recreational facilities across the State. The ex-Commissioner for the Environment, Dr Babatunde Adejare who represented ex-Governor Akinwunmi Ambode at the ceremony said the naming of the park in honour of Late Alhaji Rafiu Bakare Jafojo, a former Deputy Governor of Lagos State and a foremost Awori son, was in recognition of his outstanding service to Lagos State during the tenure of Alhaji Lateef Jakande.