President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration seemed to have woken up from slumber with last Wednesday’s presidential directive to cabinet members who have political ambition to resign, latest tomorrow. The President dropped the bombshell at the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting. For some of the ministers, that definitely was the last FEC meeting they would attend while even for others, they may never have access to the seat of power again. Such is the transient nature of power. Yet, this is a fact of life that is lost on most of our political leaders who behave, once appointed, as if they were indigenes of the seats of power. Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, who disclosed the president’s directive at the end of the meeting said the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, was not affected by the order because he is an elected member of the cabinet. He added that he did not have the mandate to comment on the fate of non-cabinet members like the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, who had all the while been hiding behind one finger, until he instituted a court action against the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), over his anticipated disqualification from a race he had said everything about even without opening his mouth. Mohammed, however, disclosed the names of the cabinet members who had paid for, and collected nomination forms. These are: Ministers of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio; Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige; Science, Technology and Innovation, Ogbonnaya Onu, as well as Ministers of State for Education, Emeka Nwajiuba, and Petroleum, Timipre Sylva, who have all joined the presidential race on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Others are the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, who is vying for the Kebbi State governorship seat; Minister of State for Mines and Steel, Uche Ogar, who is running for the governorship position in Abia State, and the Minister of Women Affairs, Pauline Tallen, who declared her ambition to contest for a senatorial seat in Plateau State. Of the lot, only Nwajiuba did what a man does: he resigned well ahead of the presidential directive, citing conflict of interest and the need to concentrate on his political campaign. Talk of honour. The others wanted to eat their cake and at the same time, have it. Tayo Alasoadura, Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs also resigned following the president’s directive. This newspaper put President Buhari’s mood at the FEC meeting succinctly: “Speaking calmly, the President did not mince words. He showed a bit of anger. What followed was pin-drop silence before Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Boss Mustapha rounded off the meeting.” For once, we saw a president who had been ruling taciturnly, (a thing exploited by many of his ministers and others to behave like tin gods, with the lack of synergy in government becoming so glaring), getting visibly angry. Everybody was doing as he or she pleased. This has made many observers ask at several critical junctures: “so, where is the president in all of these”? “It’s not their (ministers’) fault; it’s the president we have to blame.” These were Nigerians’ comments even when the debate on the impropriety or otherwise of the ministers’ decision to stay put, contrary to common sense and fairness, raged. But the presidential directive eventually came like thunderbolt. It jolted not only Nigerians who were wondering where the president kept this kind of sweet wine these past seven years, serving them sour wine instead; but the ministers as well. Indeed, before now, not a few Nigerians had felt most of these cabinet members really got the original of whatever spell they had cast on the president, making him to still be keeping them in spite of their incompetence and cluelessness that have been so visible to the blind and audible even to the deaf, leading to the sorry state that the country has been largely, especially under this administration. As a matter of fact, one of them, Ngige, was so thrown off balance after the announcement that he could not believe the honeymoon was over. He reportedly told Vanguard that he was not in a hurry to resign and that he would have to consult with the president and his constituents before resigning. “I have no reaction for now because the president said if anyone wants clarifications, the person should meet him. So I have to consult him and consult my constituents, Anambra State because I am holding the office for the government and my constituents”, he said. His reaction reminded me of one of my bosses at the then Kingsway Stores on Marina, Lagos, where I worked briefly after my school cert. The woman, one Mrs Dina, was such a funny fellow that there was never a dull moment with her. One of her popular jokes then was to tell anyone who ran afoul of the company’s rules and regulations that Kingsway “a koko le e lo, ki won to fi’we da e duro” (meaning Kingsway would first send you away before following it up with your sack letter). I had wanted to advise the Minister Ngige to honourably drop his resignation letter so that Mrs. Dina’s expensive joke would not be invoked on him, when I learnt the President had hosted all the cabinet members concerned to a valedictory meeting on Friday. It should be obvious to the minister by now that the time of consultations is over. Moreover, it is in times of distress like this that our political leaders remember their constituents. As my people say, “b’aja ba f’ori ko’mi, a m’ona ile olowo e” (when a dog runs into trouble, he knows the way to its owner’s house). It is now that they are no longer in office that many of them will know how little they are. Many of them cannot even return to those constituents without police protection. But then, most of these ministers in Buhari’s cabinet must count themselves lucky. Many other presidents would have fired them a long time ago. But Nigeria it is that has paid for the Buhari permissiveness that has kept many of them thus far. As a matter of fact, Ngige would have been rendered jobless the day he said we have enough doctors and that their exodus to other countries was a blessing to Nigeria. The same way Sylva would have been made to join the unemployment queues the day he said Nigerians should be happy the country was importing fuel from Niger Republic and not from some far countries. With a Minister of State for Petroleum with this mindset, what further proof do we need for why our refineries are not working? Please don’t remind me that the president is the principal manager of this vital sector. That is a different kettle of fish, altogether. How does importing fuel from wherever help our economy when we are a major crude oil producer?   The ‘road’ to Rapture     Akinjide Osuntokun at 80     Nod to repeat   For these careless statements alone, in saner climes, both Ngige and Sylva would have been checked out of the cabinet since. Or, is it the all-powerful Malami that we want to talk about? The cat with nine lives and the president’s begotten son? The one we all thought to be invincible and beyond reproach? Despite the many sins he had allegedly committed, he still sat pretty in office, dishing the government personal or parochial opinions as legal positions. But what do you expect when a toddler wears the shoes meant for adults? His predecessors of yore must be wondering what an eaglet lawyer is doing on a seat meant for legal luminaries! And Emefiele, the one who oversaw policies that saw our currency fell from the worst scenario of N198 to a dollar when he took over in 2015 to its present ridiculous and unprecedented rate of over N550 to one dollar. Is that what commends him for promotion to office of president? Emefiele, from what we now know is more politician than our professional politicians. This, apparently, was what had sustained him for long, not his professional handling of the apex bank’s affairs. The refusal of President Buhari’s ministers interested in contesting elections to resign was probably the height of the impunity, shenanigans and corruption that define the government. It was so bad that they turned the highest office in the land to a wall clock joke, with many of them wanting to succeed their boss. There is no harm in this; except that governance suffers while these people exalt the wild goose chase they are after beyond the ministerial appointments already in their kitty. This shows that the ministers did not know or chose not to care that their government was barely being tolerated due to non-performance. What are they going to offer at the presidential level when they already failed as ministers? This matter should not end with the officials’ resignation; their tenures should be probed. A friend usually cracks a joke that a man who ate stockfish without picking his teeth would most likely not pay his debt (eni to je panla ti ko ta’yin; to ba je gbese, ko ni san). We need to be sure that people like these without a moral compass have not tampered with our purse violently. By their action, the affected persons have proved to be the typical Nigerian politician that they are: all they see is their political ambition, nothing else. Even if the law permits their indulgence, what of the morality of it? What of the unfair advantage that such political offices confer on the public officials? That reminds me; how do those of them who paid the N100million nomination fee want to convince the rest of us that it was not our money they used to get the form? Many Nigerians have also said that they thought N100million was a lot of money until the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) started selling its presidential nomination form for that amount. Also, as some people have argued on several platforms, the official salary of even the president in four years is about N120million. How then can someone buy ordinary form for that position with N100million? How many annual salaries of  a professor would that pay? Meanwhile, university lecturers are on strike and government is saying it has no money to meet their demands. Meanwhile, our legislators who are asking the rest of us to patronise made-in-Nigeria products cruise about in the best of imported exotic cars that their counterparts in countries where those vehicles are produced can never use, not even in their dreams. Meanwhile, we are asking those countries that we are heavily indebted to for debt forgiveness. Even if they are ‘compound fools’, it is unlikely they would want to continue picking the bills of our unproductive conspicuous consumption. What are our politicians producing and selling that they have such money to literally set ablaze? In spite of everything, it is still gratifying that the scales seem to have finally fallen from the eyes of President Buhari such that he could clearly see the true colours of some of his cabinet members. He could see them for the opportunists and sycophants that they are. He could see the lack or absence of moral compass in their actions. Whatever the President’s motive, this singular action is likely to have some positive effect on his administration in the remaining part of its lame duck period, as not a few public officials would henceforth think twice before acting. But can President Buhari sustain this, or is the action only a flash in the pan? The answer is not just in the wombs of time, especially with the president’s own legendary inadequacies, but in his choice of replacements for the former ministers. This is a golden opportunity for the administration to redeem its image. If governors ensured their aides with political ambition resign, nothing should make those at the federal level sacrosanct. If it means amending the constitution, so be it.