Have patience awhile; slanders are not long-lives. Truth is the child of time, erelong she shall appear to vindicate thee”. – Immanuel Kant. German Philosopher Nasir El-Rufai, in an earthshaking interview with the Vanguard Newspaper on the 24th February, 2020,had unequivocally thrown his considerable weight behind a southern presidency, after eight (8)years of president Muhammadu Buhari. His words:”It  would be unjustified for the North to seek to retain the presidency  after President Muhammadu Buhari might have completed his eight years”. When El-Rufai made this farsighted statement, it seemed  like he was crying wolf,where there was none. Predictably, but regrettably the Vanguard interview didn’t win El-Rufai any friend. Thankfully, El-Rufai, expected no garland,not because he went against the unreasonable and unconscionable  position of some northerners, who  before the commencement of Buhari’s second term, had lunched the campaign  for the retention of the presidency in the region, because it was a matter of conviction. The major plank of their argument, is that the death of late President Umaru Yar’Adua shortchanged the north, in the turn by turn rotation of power, that lays little or no premium on performance. Goodluck Jonathan, Yar’Aduas’ vice, had gone on to complete the tenure of  Umaru Yar’Adua and got re-elected in his own right  for another four year term,before his resounding defeat in 2015,in the hands of Buhari. For daring to weigh in favour of a southern president, some of his colleagues are believed to have been behind several anti El-Rufai campaign,the reward for daring to torpedo their plot. In reaction  they also embarked on a subterranean move to draft former president Goodluck Jonathan into the 2023 presidential race,because it offered them another  short cut to power. Meanwhile,in the south, the narrative driven by some lazy analysts was that El-Rufai was strategically positioning to benefit,in the event the south, is unable to present an acceptable candidate. Clearly El-Rufai, was compelled to speak up for these main reasons;the state of the country, the long term impact on the integrity of North, if it reneges on power shift to the south. The other being, El- Rufai’s sense of justice, which abhors injustice. El-Rufai, might have also been scandalized, on how quickly some Northerners seem to have forgotten the challenges the region faced  from the Ibrahim Babangida annulment of the 1983 presidential election, believed to have been won by late Chief M.K.O. Abiola, which truly speaking, it’s yet to fully recover from. The north bore the brunt of the annulment,for the action of Babangida, against Abiola, his friend. But in the event they had forgotten, El-Rufai out of a sense of duty deemed it necessary to remind them of the proud heritage of the north, which is that its word, is its bond:”I want to say that those of us from Northern Nigeria honour agreements.We do not violate unwritten political agreements and I will be the last person to lead in violating that agreement”. Without doubt, the North has solid voting power,but it has always needed allies to win elections at the center. A fact that seems lost on some political neophytes, interested only in acquiring power,for its flamboyance. Once Aminu Tambawal, was elected governor of Sokoto state, in 2015, he kickstarted his presidential campaign. In what is a ringing indictment of Aminu Tambawal, Sokoto state, is one of the two states that couldn’t present its final year students for the ongoing West African Examination Council (WAEC)  examination. The other being Zamfara state, which has remained a bread basket case.   Ekiti ’22: The inevitability of BAO’s victory for…     Gregorians are not the only champions     The myth of NATO’s Article 5   Despite Buhari’s popularity and solid 12 million voters, he consistently failed in his previous presidential bids,until El-Rufai forced Buhari and Bola Tinubu to merge their parties into the formidable All Progressives Congress (APC), that eventually defeated the PDP, led by Goodluck Jonathan, a man they successfully tagged as clueless.  In 1979, the South-South states of Rivers, Cross Rivers,had helped president Shehu Shagari to power. In 1999, Olusegun Obasanjo, despite being rejected by the South-West, won the election, with support from the other sections of the country. In politics,  I Owe You (I. O. U), is a normal political debt(s) from previous support, and it seriously counts. It’s a wash my back, I wash your back life,and people hardly forget breaches. If the APC makes the strategic blunder of presenting a northern presidential candidate, the party, will most certainly disintegrate overnight. The North, just can’t afford to squander its tremendous goodwill, on the altar of a pot of porridge, considering the political consequences. The Yorubas, are unlike the Ibos, who lack the capacity to make the PDP pay a heavy price for treating it with utter contempt, despite its solid support for the party since 1999. Until 2015, the South-West, had never aligned  politically with the north. If the north retains the presidency, hardline Yoruba leaders, will feel justified in their anti-North stance. It would have been a miracle,if these political neophytes, the key drivers of the Goodluck Jonathan project – Buni, Abubakar Malami, Bagudu, and Badaru- understood the fundamental issues involved in their unholy quest for power. For instance, how can the APC(what is left of it,since the South-West would have moved to another party) market Goodluck Jonathan, that it convinced Nigerians, was a drunk and clueless? Worse still, is  that Jonathan can not deliver the South-South to APC. Jonathan, in fact  had lost whatever was left of his reputation, since he became identified with the APC. The times are equally perilous. Nigeria, without doubt is at a precipice, and the shenanigans of some politicians hasn’t helped,the deeply unstable country. El-Rufai is opposed to zoning, because of the drawbacks, but to the extent that it reasonably ensures  an orderly transition and fairness, he has consistently thrown his full weight behind it. During the visit of Bola Ahmed Tinubu, one of the legion of presidential hopefuls, he once again demonstrated his commitment to power shift. Those who believed El-Rufai is a power monger, and has for ever been  plotting to become the president (which by the way, he is eminently qualified for),must have been greatly disappointed, that he didn’t buy the presidential form. He has further confounded his traducers, by what appears to be political realignment with Bola Tinubu, who is not his enemy. El-Rufai, has been a victim of a campaign of calumny, outright lies, and slander, but has refused to be defined by his traducers. His  convictions have continued to drive his politics, extremely patient and open to dialogue, at the end of the day, the least of his worry, is being right in the eyes of others, who most times are not ready to stand up for any principle. History like they say, will always vindicate the just. Indeed El-Rufai, has already been vindicated on several other issues, like the religious preaching bill, the APC crisis etc. When he embarked on “operation APC National Convention must hold”, he was called unprintable names, undeterred, he single handedly rescued the party from the hands of the charlatans holding it hostage. Never mind that his traducers only grudgingly acknowledge his role. It’s to El-Rufai’s credit that he refused to be distracted,  until the convention was delivered. Nasir Ahmed El-Rufai, can never be accused of keeping quiet, when the country needed him to speak up. By standing firm, he has greatly contributed to the stability of a bitterly polarized country.