As the Federal Government did with the telecom sector over two decades ago, it is liberalising the financial services sector, encouraging digital transactions and moving away from a total dependence on banks to include providers with different business models and distribution channels. The latest step in that evolution is the granting of PSB licences to MTN and Airtel, two of the country’s biggest providers of telecom services. Both received final authorisation from the apex bank last month, six months after an approval-in-principle was issued last November. According to Quartz report, when the PSBs begin operations, MTN and Airtel will not provide  banking service. They won’t be able to lend to or facilitate foreign exchange transfers for customers. But the licence will “open the opportunity for expanding reach to more remote, lower income customers that banks have been unable to reach,” says Ashley Immanuel, the former CEO of EFInA, a group that publishes research on access to financial services in Nigeria.   Investment in subsea cables to exceed $10b     Bundle: crypto flourishes despite hurdles     Enhancing SMEs’ capacity in food production   Quartz recalled that the CBN introduced the PSB licence in 2018, modelled after India’s payments banks, which were created by The Reserve Bank of India in 2015 to take banking to rural areas, serving migrant workers and low-income families. One of India’s six payments banks is owned by Airtel, another by Mukesh Ambani’s telecom giant, Jio. Its PSB licence is a mobile money licence reserved for non-bank institutions (including supermarket chains) that can demonstrate an ability to reach the rural areas, where two-thirds of the country’s 106 million adults live. While 45 per cent of adults have bank accounts, 36 per cent are still financially excluded, EFInA’s report for 2020 said. PSBs offer deposits and withdrawals, cross-border remittances, and can issue debit cards, but not credit cards. Twenty-five per cent of their operations must be in rural areas. Nigeria has five PSBs, as MTN, and Airtel join Glo, and 9mobile, also mobile network operators, in obtaining the coveted licence (Glo and 9mobile got theirs in 2020.) Each of them formed a subsidiary for this purpose: MoMo PSB, Smartcash PSB, Moneymaster PSB, and 9PSB. A minimum capital of N5billion ($13 million) is required to operate a PSB, according to the CBN’s guidelines. There is some optimism for these telecom-owned PSBs, given that four of the telcos have a combined 198 million active mobile phone subscribers. MTN, for example, has above 80 per cent national coverage of the baseline 2G and 3G services that will power most PSB services through technologies like USSD and electronic wallets. EFInA’s view, shared in an email to Quartz, is that telcos like MTN “have great potential to advance financial inclusion” by taking advantage of their large capital base, strong brand presence, technology, and ability to scale. A report by the GSM Association (GSMA) an organisation that tracks trends in mobile financial services across the world, projects that PSBs in Nigeria will “deliver services cost-effectively in rural areas”. Where banks have to charge prohibitive fees on low value transactions, hence discouraging the participation of poor customers, telecom companies can take advantage of the fact that those customers already use their voice (and, probably, data) services to add value.