Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has dismissed report of plot to impose candidates of the All Progressives Congress in Ondo State for next year’s general elections. Governor Akeredolu said rumours of imposition of candidates were sponsored by those he termed ‘disgruntled purported members whose mission is to destabilize the party ahead of the coming elections.’ Akeredolu who urged aspirants to focus on their campaigns said he is committed to the principle of party supremacy. He said the same principle of party supremacy produced the peaceful and rancour-free congress that was held in the state. Speaking in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Richard Olatunde, Govemor Akeredolu said the allegation that candidates were being propped to be imposed ahead of the party primaries was an attempt by those with tainted party loyalty to box the APC into a state of helplessness in order to whittle down the supremacy of the party.   Ayu overrules disqualification of Imo Rep aspirant     2023: Mustapha, others dump Amosun camp, join Abiodun     Drama as Police carry detained Rep Dagogo to court on…   His words, “Blackmail cannot stop the resolve of the party to enforce individual and collective discipline through democratic processes as enunciated in the various stakeholders’ sessions in the last three weeks. As an incurable democrat, Governor Akeredolu has always preached and supported fairness, equity and justice even in playing his leadership role in the affairs of the party in the state and at the national level. Governor Akeredolu is a loud voice in the struggle for fairness and the need for the party to walk the path of equity in the forthcoming elections. He will not lead any struggle that will defeat his beliefs and strong convictions.” “It should be noted that Ondo APC is the only rancor-free chapter of the party in the Southwest. This was made possible by the fair and principled leadership of Governor Akeredolu. His commitment to a united party devoid of groupings and factions is unparalleled.”