No fewer than 3,500 Nigerians will benefit from N10 million worth of fuel earmarked for distribution by Adron Homes and Properties as part of its 10th anniversary. Each person is expected to get distribute N3,000 worth of fuel. The company’s Director-General, Sales and Marketing, Mrs Folashade Oloruntoba, broke the news at the weekend at the company’s head office in Lagos. She said: “Adron Homes and Properties are bent on giving back to the society and this the company has continually done over its 10 years of existence. “The company will be targeting several filling stations across eight states, namely; Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Abuja, Nasarawa, Niger and Ekiti starting from May 31, till the last person is served.” She identified the 34 filling stations where the give-away would be taking place as: Mobile Filling Station, Fagba; NorthWest, Gbagada; Oando, Iwo Road, and NNPC, Egbeda. Others are in Niger State, Abuja, Nasarawa, and Garki in Abuja. She noted that the project would cost the company about N10 million.   NIQS to MDA: track constituency projects     Evercare Hospital gets environmental-friendly building     LSDPC donates cash to retiree   Mrs Oloruntoba added that the purpose of the programme is to appreciate the customers and to welcome more prospective customers. She explained: “We want to gift 3500 Nigerians a token of about N3000 worth of fuel, in each filling station. We will  be attending to no fewer than 100 cars at the filling stations, which will amount to 3000 Nigerians to appreciate and to welcome on board our prospective customers all across the earlier listed eight states in Nigeria. We are also extending same gesture to Cotonou in the Republic of Benin.” It would be recalled that the real estate company in its 10 years  bridged the gap of affordable housing among the citizens. The 10th anniversary celebration, the company has reiterated, would be a year-long event and this is one of the givebacks it would be embarking on in appreciation of its customers and giving back to the society. Mrs Oloruntoba emphasised that everyone needs to take advantage of the company’s affordable housing scheme with a flexible payment plan that will span across 24 to 36 months payment . Also, Director, Sales & Marketing (Lagos), Sunbo Oguntoye, said a prospective customer could actually own a house with cash.  Asked on how this would be, she said they take prospective clients round their projects and allow to make a choice. She added that once a committal choice had been made, the person could take ownership of the house. She urged Nigerians to take advantage of the offer of free fuel which begins from today.