Super Eagles striker Victor Osimhen gave yet another spectacular performance for Napoli as his goal confirmed a top-three finish for Luciano Spalletti’s team in the Serie A. The 23-year-old scored the opener for the Partenopeans as they thrashed Serie A strugglers Genoa 3-0 at the Diego Maradona stadium. After a tough victory at Torino last week, Napoli welcomed strugglers Genoa in what was expected to be a straightforward win for Luciano Spalletti’s men. However, Napoli had to be wary, as Genoa pipped Juventus 2-1 last time out. Napoli got their breakthrough in the 32nd minute, as Osimhen once again showed his aerial prowess and headed into the net to give the Partenopeans a one-goal lead. Further goals from Giovanni Di Lorenzo and Stanislav Lobotka in the second half ensured it ended 3-0 at the Diego Maradona stadium and put Napoli just two points behind second-placed Inter Milan. Osimhen’s strike against the Griffins takes his goal tally to 14 in the Serie A.   Oshoala wins La Liga top scorer r award     Bassey eyes Europa League title for Rangers     Ofili, Ashe, Brume dazzle at athletics meets   In the English Premier League, Alex Iwobi featured the entire 90 minutes as Alex Iwobi’s Everton fall to a tough Premier League 3-2 defeat against Brentford. Nine-man Everton imploded to put their Premier League status in doubt. At Vicarage Road, Super Eagles duo Kelechi Iheanacho and Ademola Lookman watched on from the bench as Leicester City thrashed Watford 5-1. With manager Roy Hodgson initially naming an unchanged side from Wednesday’s goalless draw with Everton, Samuel Kalu made his second start in the Premier League and went the distance. The Hornets’ second substitution saw Oghenekaro Etebo come off the bench in the 81st minute, William Troost-Ekong was an unused substitute and Emmanuel Dennis is currently sidelined by a knee issue so wasn’t listed. In Holland, Maduka Okoye signed off in style as his team Sparta Rotterdam picked up a vital 3-1 win at Heracles to avoid relegation.