The number of presidential aspirants for next year’s election is the highest in the history of Nigeria. It is made up of few real contenders and many pretenders. What should distinguish them should be their programmes. But, there is no focus on their vision and plans for the distressed country. Personality seems to have overshadowed issues. There is more emphasis on power retention in the North and power shift to the South. It is a period of ego, betrayal, intra-party strife and antagonism. At the primary, the wheat shall be separated from the chaff. But, the question also may be what manner of primary. For now, few people will choose for the two parties. The electorate will then, decide on who should wear the crown and shoulder the national burden. In the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), no fewer than 17 started the race. Two dropped out after failing screening. Out of the 15, eyes are not more than three. But, if any of the three emerges, he will still need the support of others in one way or the other. Instructively, the race is not open to all members in the two parties. It is highly restricted to rich chieftains. It was possible that the mention of N50 nomination form in PDP had discouraged a number of chieftains. It is worse in the APC, which sold its form for N100 million. In the PDP are former Vice President Atiku Abubakar,  a veteran aspirant; former Senate President Bukola Saraki and Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike. Others are Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal, and his Bauchi and Akwa Ibom counterparts-Senator Bala Mohammed and Udom Emmanuel; banker Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, businessman Sam Ohunabunwa, former Ekiti State Governor Ayodele Fayose, former Senate President Pius Anyim, and former Anambra State Governor Peter Obi. Experience and loyalty to the party are factors common to them. But, if structure, popularity, networks, and money are determinants, only the first three are in contention. The top contender is Atiku, Waziri of Adamawa, an irrepressible politician, who is somehow remote to some of his rivals in the race. When he was vice president, they were just starting their political careers. He looks unstoppable. But, he faces some hurdles as well, if the PDP governors are united in their bid to stop him. However, the governors are working at cross-purpose. Atiku has turned attention to the neglected non-PDP states, where he has been sealing pacts with delegates. It appears that it is his last chance to seek the highest office. He is conscious of, and perhaps, relying on the prediction of Marabouts that he will one day become the president. Abubakar Olusola Saraki symbolises variety, or diversity. He is a Northerner and more or less a Southerner at same time. His accent is purely Fulani or Hausa, like his two names-Abubakar and Saraki, in contrast with Bukola, which is a Yoruba name. Can he garner political capital from that racial dualism, if it is not misunderstood as identity crisis? Saraki, former governor of Kwara State, is a warrior of sorts; sharp, witty, resilient and brave. He is even perceived as a strategist in the major opposition party. Wike, an advocate of zoning, has a deep purse. His contributions to the PDP cannot be ignored. He has made many friends in the party with his money. He has also attracted many foes due to his consistent indulgence in verbal warfare. In terms of prospects, other aspirants can be categorised into four, based on their meagre strengths and weaknesses. In the first category are the two governors-Tambuwal and Mohammed-who also have the golden opportunity to contest for other positions. There is a window of opportunity for the Sokoto governor to contest for Senate. If his party wins, he can become a principal officer. Mohammed is at liberty to re-contest for governor. In the second category are renowned politicians like Ayim and Obi who may not succeed in attracting enough delegates to breast the tape. Their structures are not strong. The third category is made up of technocrats- the banker and businessman. If the bulk of delegates are from Corporate Nigeria, then, Hayatu-Deen and Ohunabunwa may carry the day. How formidable are their structures within the platform? The last category is made up of spectator-aspirants. It is their participation at the primary that will catapult them into limelight. They may contest for other lower-order positions in the future, using their current foray as stepping stone. The PDP has been associated with two drama ahead of the primary. Northern PDP elders had picked two people, Saraki and Mohammed, as consensus candidates. It is a laughable. The impact of their endorsement during the primary will be nil. The delegates may not look up to the elders for leadership and direction during the exercise.   Osun, Ekiti elections and the race to 2023     Bread now beyond reach of many Africans, says AfDB     Emefiele we hail thee   The second is the neglect of zoning. PDP has rejected power shift to the South. Will heaven fall? It is doubtful. In the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), 26 are said to be eyeing Aso Villa, Abuja, the seat of government. It is understandable. APC is the ruling party and aspirants may have been fired by the feeling of electoral viability and power of incumbency. That power of incumbency can be strengthened by proper management of its primary. It can crumble if post-primary crisis is not averted. Top on the list of contenders in the APC is Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, former governor of Lagos State, national leader, party developer, bridge builder, loyal stalwart and dependable ally of President Muhammadu Buhari during the 2015 and 2019 elections. To the generality of party members, he is the aspirant to beat. A political warhorse, democrat and team player, he was the towering arrowhead before APC became the ruling party. He has continued to demonstrate political affection, love and unconditional positive regard to other contenders, knowing that he would still need them in the party’s collective effort to retain power beyond 2023. The second set of aspirants is part and parcel of the Asiwaju political family:Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi, Senator Ibikune Amosu, Senator Ajayi Boroffice, and Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. It is a moment of harrowing experience in the Southwest. Those who should ordinarily be part of Tinubu’s campaign train are trying to square up with their leader. In this electioneering, there is no coordinated Southwest agenda. The second group is made up of Northern aspirants. It includes Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello, Senate President Ahmed Lawan, Kebbi State Governor Abubakar Badaru, and Senator Sani Yarima. The implication of their entry into the race is that APC may not adopt zoning. The third is made of “unanticipated”aspirants. They are three: former President Goodluck Jonathan, Central Bank Governor Godwin Emefiele and African Development Bank President Dr. Akinwumi Adesina. Jonathan’s entry into the race, if he eventually comes out, will unleash controversy. It will be a great tragedy and a monumental contradiction for APC to field him as an anointed or a consensus candidate. Who will break the news to party stakeholders? The fourth is made up of aspirants from the Southeast, which has not fully embraced the ruling party, and Southsouth, where some gladiators with split followership have defected to the APC. Aspirants from the two contiguous zones include Ebonyi State Governor Dave Umahi, Senator Rochas Okorocha, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, Uju Kennedy, Nicholas Bello, Rotimi Amaechi, Senator Chris Ngige, Senator Ken Nnamani, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, Senator Godswill Akpabio, Chief Timpreye Sylva, and Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State. Eyes are not on the fifth group, which is made up of two aspirants-Pastor Tunde Bakare and former House of Representatives Speaker Dimeji Bankole, who joined the party not too long ago. The preparation for shadow poll in APC is also full of drama. Aspirants were given withdrawal forms, which they are expected to submit along with their nomination forms. The arrangement has generated suspicion, tension and confusion in the party. Before filling the forms, many of them consulted their lawyers for legal advice. Ministers who have joined the presidential, governorship and parliamentary race refused to resign, until the President issued a quick notice. The president berated them, indirectly, for a shortfall in courage. The President, as confirmed by his media aide, Femi Adesina, has a preferred candidate. That confirmation cannot be ignored. When he anointed Senator Adamu Abdullahi as APC National Chairman, chieftains only grumbled briefly. They later accepted their fate. Will the reaction of chieftains follow the same trend, if he unveils his preferred presidential candidate? If the president is going to anoint an aspirant, then, consensus may not be a mere speculation. How to go about it is the big issue. Who is the lucky candidate? When will President Buhari unveil him? What next after the presidential endorsement? Will the President’s choice dwarf other contestants? Will other contenders step down for him? There are other mushrooms parties floated by venerable noise makers in the polity, including former rights activist battling with identity crisis, following the restoration of civil rule in 1999. They are credited with a mettle of speech as social critics and civil society voices. They mobilised for action in the days of military rule. But, since civil rule was achieved, they have often failed in their bid to mobilise for change on the platforms of their narrow parties. The smaller parties lack spread and tentacles across the regions. The aspirants  are just contesting for the fun of it. In the name of democracy and human rights, they are merely warming the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) register. Their candidates will lose their deposit on poll day. Politics is dynamic. The field is slippery. There may be more surprises as Nigeria moves closer to 2023. One thing is certain: another President will emerge next year.