In Niger North Senatorial District, there is palpable tension ahead of the 2023 general elections. Before now, it was being rumored that Governor Abubakar Sani Bello would be going to the Senate after his stint in Government House. The governor is rounding up his second term in office and will not be eligible to seek re-election in 2023. As expected, he has thrown his hat into the ring for the senate contest in Niger North senatorial district with a letter declaring his intention to contest for the Niger North Senatorial District. He submitted the letter to the leadership of the party recently. The Governor would be slugging it out with the incumbent Senator of the zone, Senator Sabi Abdullahi Aliyu, who is also a chieftain of the party. Following the failure of the governor’s backers to convince Aliyu to yield the seat to Bello as envisaged, the two APC chieftains appear set for a political showdown at the party’s primary election later in the year. Governor Bello ended months of speculations about his political future when he formally announced his senatorial ambition with a letter to the party. The letter in parts indicates, “I write to notify you of my willingness and readiness to contest the exalted office of Senator representing Niger-North Senatorial District which comprising Kontagora and Borgu Emirate Councils on the platform of the APC”. “My decision to contest in the above-stated category is response to the clarion call of the patriotic yearnings and aspirations of the good people of Niger-North Senatorial District who see me as a worthy ambassador with the impeccable credentials and requisite experience required to deliver effectively in representing our people in the National Assembly”. While pledging to transform Niger-North into the most developed Senatorial Districts in Nigeria, Sani Bello said his candidature is a wake-up call to the good people of Kontagora and Borgu Emirate Councils to come together and contribute our quota to the growth and development of the zone. Several groups and individuals within and outside the party has been urging the governor to contest the senatorial seat so as to continue his developmental stride for the people of Niger North senatorial district after his stint as governor. Party sources hinted that the announcement of his aspiration may have been delayed by underground efforts by some stakeholders to convince Senator Aliyu to decline seeking re-election so as to allow the governor pick the APC senatorial ticket for the district unopposed. Aside honouring the governor for the good work he has done leading the party, it was also meant to avoid crisis within the party. “Efforts were actually made but it didn’t work out. As a democrat, the governor is not one to force anybody to do anything contrary to his or her desire. So, it seems it is the primary election that will decide the senate flag-bearer in Niger North like in other places ahead of the 2023 general elections in Niger state. One thing that is certain now is that Governor Bello is in the race,’ a source said. While it is suspected that the governor may enjoy the support of the state leadership of the party, the many projects and empowerments undertaken by Senator Sabi Aliyu may work in his favour. His relentless push for the establishment of a Federal University of Education in the zone, is believed to have endeared him to the people of the area, and may turn out a great selling point.   Enugu North: Challenger rocks boat over Ugwuanyi’s bid     Ogun East: A race between old and new breed     Why some ladies prefer sleeping with dogs   Meanwhile, former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in the 2019 election, Umar Mohmmad Nasko, who initially indicated interest in the Niger North senate seat, has withdrawn from the race. Nasko announced his withdrawal in a letter dated 26th of April, 2022 and addressed to the Niger state PDP Chairman, Tanko Beji. Amidst insinuations that he was forced to drop his ambition, Nasko said “withdrawing from the senatorial race has been one of the hardest decisions I have had to make, but I know it is necessary to bring sanity to my party,” he wrote while explaining that he will no longer continue his aspirations for the senatorial seat representing Niger North Senatorial District. In Niger South senatorial district, a former gubernatorial aspirant on the platform of the APC, Dr. Aminu Mohammed Baka, has indicated interest to vie for the senatorial seat. Baka is however running on the platform of the PDP. He would be contending with the incumbent Senator, Senator Bima Enagi. Enagi is the current Senator representing Niger East Senatorial District under the APC. He is from Edati local government area. Though he was rumoured to be interested in the governorship ticket of his party before now, there are indications he may settle for a return to the senate. Enagi is credited with some contributions to education, health and rural development as a Senator. These, pundits say, will work in his favour. But Enagi remains unpopular for introducing the controversial bill “Generating Set Prohibition/Ban Bill 2020” to the Senate. The bill prescribed 10 years imprisonment for offenders. “The ban shall not include generator sets used for essential services such as medical purposes, airports, railway stations, elevators, research institutions and facilities that require 24 hours of electric power supply. Approval for such exclusion shall come from the Minister of Power,” the draft read in part. Baka too, as a philanthropist, has shown support for women and youth in the area of job creation, scholarships for indigent students and empowerment programmes for the residents across the eight local governments is noteworthy. His supporters say he will do more if elected senator. The PDP aspirant is seen by many as someone with the capacity to give Enagi a good fight. It would be the contest between the PDP and the APC in the zone. The race in Niger East Senatorial District is quite dull across party lines. In both the PDP and APC, only Senator Mohammed Sani Musa has been prominent with his intention to represent the zone in the Senate. No other aspirant has indicated interest so far. But it is suspected that some interested politicians, especially in the ruling party, are waiting for the appropriate time to make their aspirations public. For Sani Musa, his huge support from the people may get him the seat and the ticket especially after he graciously stepped down for the consensus candidate during the APC National Chairmanship contest. His penchant to always speak about the insecurity situation affecting his constituency on the floor of the Senate has endeared him to the people. That may be the reason no other person has come out to challenge him.