It was the second Global COVID-19 Summit. And it afforded global leaders the opportunity to unveil plans against this and future pandemics. President Joe Biden of the United States thanked the leaders of Belize, Germany, Indonesia, and Senegal for co-hosting this summit with his country. The United States is first COVID Summit Chair, Belize is CARICOM Chair; Germany holds the G7 Presidency; Indonesia holds the G20 Presidency; and Senegal is African Union Chair. Biden said when the first summit held last September, leaders were focused on critical and urgent challenges.  Now, he is proud of the work that has been done over the last several months and the commitments to vaccinate the world. “For our part, the United States has provided more than $19 billion to help countries fight COVID-19 all around the world.  We’ve provided lifesaving medicines, oxygen, tests, equipment, supplies, and partnered with countries to improve their capacity to manufacture vaccines as well. We’ve delivered more than 500 million vaccines to 115 different countries.  And we’re going to continue to work with COVAX to deliver another 500 million doses – all part of the pledge we made to donate 1 billion doses of vaccine to the most vulnerable in the world,” Biden said. He added that all the United States has done to battle the virus is completely free – no strings attached. He was quick to observe that there was still so much left to do.  “This pandemic isn’t over,” he declared. The United States, Biden said, has recorded one million COVID deaths. It hit this milestone on May 11, a day before the virtual-cum-physical summit kicked off. “My heart goes out to all of those who are struggling, asking themselves, ‘How do I go on without him?’  ‘How do I go on without her?’ ‘What will we do without them?’ It’s grief shared by people across all of our nations.” Biden added that around the world, many more millions have died, resulting in millions of children being orphaned. “And with thousands still dying every day, now is the time for us to act – all of us – together,” he said. He announced that the United States would share critical COVID-19 technologies through the World Health Organisation COVID-19 Technology Access Pool, promising that his country will make available health technologies that are owned by the United States government, including stabilised spike protein that is used in many COVID-19 vaccines. The country is starting a new pilot programme with the Global Fund to expand access to rapid testing and antiviral treatments for people in harder-to-reach areas, Biden said. It is also increasing its support for a new Pandemic Preparedness and Global Health Security fund that will be established at the World Bank this summer with $450 million in seed funding. Biden commended Indonesia and Italy for their leadership in helping make this fund a reality. He encouraged other leaders to join him in upping their commitments. He explained that the world would face more global health crises, adding: “This is not the last one we’ve had.  It’s not a question of ‘if,’ it’s a question of ‘when.'” He urged the U.S. Congress to take the urgent action to provide emergency COVID-19 funding to maintain supplies of COVID-19 tests, treatments, and vaccines, including next-generation vaccines being developed. “The request also includes $5 billion to keep up our global partnership in the fight against COVID-19 and sustain our efforts to get shots in people’s arms all around the world, expand access to treatment, and save lives everywhere,” he said.   Who will PDP pick as flag bearer?     Saraki: I will create opportunities for Nigerians     Buhari’s adviser on power joins Jigawa governorship…   Also, the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, have partnered to create the COVAX Rapid Financing Facility, which will provide up to $1billion to accelerate COVID-19 vaccine and ancillary supply purchase and delivery for developing countries in the COVAX Advance Market Commitment (COVAX AMC). “DFC’s $1 billion investment will accelerate COVID-19 vaccine availability for less-developed countries around the world. DFC’s strong partnership with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance advances the Biden-Harris Administration’s effort to ensure more countries can acquire safe, reliable vaccines to advance the end of the COVID-19 pandemic,” said DFC CEO Scott Nathan. Dr Seth Berkley, CEO of Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, which manages the COVAX Facility, expressed gratitude to DFC and the U.S. government for the new financing tool, which will speed the availability of funding COVAX needs to close the COVID vaccine equity gap. “With this new tool, COVAX can better respond to the next twist and turn of the pandemic and manage risks that countries can’t face alone,” Berkley said. Speaking at the summit, the United States Agency for International Development boss, Samantha Power, said according to the World Health Organisation (WHO), COVID-19 likely claimed almost 15 million lives around the world. “The scale of that loss is incalculable. But it reminds us of just how relentless an enemy we face. And it also reminds us that we cannot let up. There is a complacency that is emerging in many countries that says this pandemic is over. But we cannot just hope that Omicron is the last variant that takes precious lives and unleashes such human suffering – we have to work to make it such,” Power said. Power added that the global shortfall in the supply of vaccines has been curtailed and there are now enough vaccines for everyone who wants a vaccine. Lower middle-income countries, she said, have increased coverage from 13 per cent to 53 per cent since last September. Last December, the United States, Power said, launched the Global VAX initiative, which surged resources to 11 countries in sub-Saharan Africa to support efforts to increase the uptake of COVID-19 vaccines. “This entailed everything from helping national vaccination campaigns to building additional cold-chain capacity to creating mobile vaccination sites to fighting misinformation and has been discussed, the perception that COVID wasn’t much of a threat.” It worked with Africa to achieve concrete results. “In Ghana, the percentage of eligible people fully vaccinated more than doubled between December and April, from 12.4 percent to 25.4 percent. In Uganda, the country jumped from a coverage rate of 20 per cent of eligible adults getting one dose to 71 per cent having received one dose. And that leap was just between November and April,” she said, pleading that now is not the time to back down but the time to push ahead. She urged donor countries, including the United States, to keep investing in shots-in-arms support, and focus on boosting vaccination coverage globally, especially among high-risk populations like the elderly, the immuno-compromised, and health workers. Power announced that USAID was committing $20 million to launch lifesaving test-and-treat strategies targeting those at the highest risk of contracting COVID-19 and also planning to invest $200 million in a new fund to prevent future pandemics and strengthen health security. The summit hammered on the need to prevent complacency because the pandemic is not over, and because now is the time to prepare for the next one.  It resolved to focus on securing new resources to control COVID-19 in 2022. It also resolved to protect the most vulnerable by getting vaccines, tests, and treatments to those at highest risk, like the elderly, the immunocompromised and frontline and health workers. It equally resolved to prevent future catastrophes by investing now to secure political commitment for pandemic preparedness globally. While giving closing remarks by at the summit, the U.S. Representative to the United Nations, Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield, said every country has a role to play in the fight against the pandemic. “We must come together to ensure testing and treatment is accessible to all, to support heroic frontline healthcare workers, and to strengthen our public health infrastructure. And while we’re making real progress in our efforts to vaccinate the world, we know that too many people are still out of reach – especially those living under conflict and instability. This is an issue the UN Security Council took up just last month, and I’m glad to see it’s a focus of today’s next session,” she added.