The High-Intensity Focused Ultrasound (HIFU) treatment for fibroid, has been described as the safest and most effective way to remove the fibroid, with minimal risk. The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Fibroid Care Centre at Nordica, Dr Abayomi Ajayi stated this in a chat with reporters in Abuja. He explained that unlike other treatment methods for fibroid such as surgery, the HIFU does not require anaesthetics, loss of blood, or blood transfusion, among others, because it basically involves converting ultrasound into heat, which, in turn, burns off the fibroid. In a chat with reporters in Abuja, he noted that while about 70 to 80 per cent of black people have a lifetime risk of having fibroids, HIFU not only save lives but also improves the quality of life because the process takes about two hours, while the patient can return back to normal life in 48 hours.   COVID-19: Preparing for the next pandemic     Saraki: I will create opportunities for Nigerians     Buhari’s adviser on power joins Jigawa governorship…   He, however, stated that patients who are very obese; who have had previous surgeries, especially the up and down (not transverse); liposuction; who cannot communicate; and who have uterine or cervix cancer, cannot benefit from the treatment because of the risks their previous surgeries may cause to the HIFU treatment. He said: “The way surgeries are done for fibroid have changed over time. Before, you cut the woman open. But after a while, we could do endoscopic surgery where we can remove the fibroid without opening up by putting a telescope. “All these methods have a lot of risks because the woman has to be anesthetised, stay in the hospital for a while (sometimes 48 hours to five days), and risk of blood transfusion, among others. Even after the fibroid has been removed, there could be late complications such as scars-even inside the uterus. Sometimes the fibroid is removed along with the potential to have babies. “Therefore, all these motivated me to say – there must be a better way, especially now that we are losing more doctors, and anaesthetists are getting fewer by the day. This facilitated me to look for a method where you do not need a blood transfusion, anaesthetics and others. With HIFU, you come in that day and leave the same day. The whole process takes about two hours; you rest for about two hours, and you are ready to start eating and your life continues. In a maximum of 48 hours, you can do anything you like.”