Support has continued to pour in for National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu in his aspiration to clinch the party’s presidential ticket. A source in Katsina State said some APC caucus members are evaluating the records of aspirants in terms of their commitment to democracy, the party, tolerance and achievements. “I can tell you authoritatively that we are considering Asiwaju because of his track records. He is truly a detribalised Nigerian who remained consistent with democracy and rule of law over three decades. “Several Nigerians have benefited from his generosity, and he is not biased in dealing with people, irrespective of tribe, religion, and other differences. A peep into Tinubu’s family, political dynasty and those who have become important figures in Nigeria today says it all,” the source said. Tinubu, in one of his visits to the North, said he joined the contest to unite the country, noting that he has the record and experience to be president.   Sirika: how Fed Govt will tackle aviation fuel crisis     ‘Why NSCDC adopted non-kinetic approach’     Travails of a nation on trial   He told delegates he has the experience to turn around the situation, especially in the economic and security sectors, to ensure Nigerians benefit from its resources. The APC national leader added: “Anybody can run, but not everybody can become president. You must have the track record, experience, vision, training, and development programme to change a nation from poverty to prosperity. I’ve got it all; I’m different from them. They’re candidates, they’re aspirants, but I’m an aspirant.” A Kaduna State delegate, Haliru Shetimma, said Kaduna delegates would go with a trusted leader among the presidential aspirants. He said: “The former Lagos State governor is not one of those emergency leaders who suddenly realised the need to become president. For us in Kaduna and other states, we are standing on Asiwaju’s mandate. He knows the way. We are following the development in Lagos, where non-Yoruba are becoming members of exco and lawmakers. That is the kind of leader we want.” Governor Nasir El-Rufai thanked Tinubu for the visit, his generosity, and for remembering Kaduna in its trying moments. He said: “You have spoken to our people, they appear convinced, and when the people of Kaduna give their words, sir, rest assured of our support. We keep to our word and ensure that as we intend to keep our promise. We will also want you to promise to deal with insecurity, infrastructure and support agriculture as well as empowerment.”