Two House of Representatives members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State Femi Bamisile and Sola Fatoba have won the party’s tickets to seek reelection. Bamisile garnered 160 votes to defeat House of Assembly member representing Emure constituency, Hon Bummi Adelugba. Fatoba, who represents Ekiti Central Federal Constituency 1 polled 114 votes to defeat the trio of Opeyemi Ogunsakin Oluyemi Esan and Sunday Ola, who polled 2, 3 and 0 respectively. Mr Akin Rotimi, the Senior Special Assistant on Strategic Communications to Fayemi, also won the primary in Ekiti North Federal Constituency 1. But a businessman, Mr Akinlayo Kolawole, shockingly trounced a House of Representatives member, Barr. Ibrahim Olanrewaju in Ekiti North Federal Constituency 1. Bamisile said his victory would further imbue him with zeal and vigour to do more for his constituents.   BREAKING: INEC extends deadline for primaries by six days     Confusion, gunshots mar APC House of Reps primary in Ondo     Ogunleye’s son defeats Lagos Majority for Assembly…   “I am happy about this, it shows that my people appreciated the little we have been able to do in the last few years and I assure them that I will bring more dividends of democracy Addressing reporters on his victory, Fatoba, said : “I appreciate Governor Kayode Fayemi, her Excellency, Erelu Bisi Fayemi and my constituents, including the delegates, for their support . call on other contestants to see this as no Victor, no vanquished race. I plead with them to join me so that we can all work for the victory of APC in the June 18 governorship election”. But the trio of Esan, Ogunsakin and Ola, expressed disapproval over the victory, describing the primary as a sham and a disgrace to the ruling party. They told reporters : “This primary is nothing, but a sham and disgrace to APC. “The delegates’ list that was brought from the national was changed by some party members and we expected the panel from Abuja to rectify this , which they didn’t do. “We are appealing to the national leaders of our party to nullify the primary and order fresh election ,so that our party can win in 2023”.