The Federal Government yesterday undertook a review of its policy on tax exemptions and concessions, describing them as sources of huge revenue leakages and tax expenditures. Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed made this known in Abuja yesterday at a workshop on tax expenditure organised by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). She noted that while tax exemptions and concessions were granted with the expectation that the revenue foregone would lead to commensurate benefits in the economy, they now constitute huge tax expenditures and revenue leakages to government. Last year, the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) granted Dangote Cement Plc N22.32 billion tax credit certificates. The tax credit certificates issued were split in two, one of which is valued at N21.6 billion for the construction of Apapa-Oworonshoki-Ojota road while the other certificate is valued at N721 million for the Lokoja-Obajana-Kabba road between Kogi and Kwara states. The Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) company was granted a N20 billion tax waiver for the construction of Bodo Bonny Bridge in Rivers State. NLNG has received three credit certificates in the last three years valued at N46 billion. Ahmed, who was represented by Director, Technical Services in the Ministry, Fatima Hayatu, pointed out that tax exemptions and concessions had been used by successive governments to attract domestic and foreign direct investments. According to her, these tax exemptions and concessions were granted “with the expectation that the revenue foregone will lead to commensurate benefits in the economy in the form of employment generation, capital formation, wealth creation and poverty alleviation, revenue generation, technology transfer, amongst others”. However, the minister lamented that they now “constitute huge tax expenditures and revenue leakages to government”. She said Nigeria’s low revenue generation capabilities have been “an enduring challenge to past and present governments”.   Rising food, energy costs push inflation to 16.82 %     How U.S., EU, UK promote gender inclusion in diplomatic…     It’s too late to tinker with 2023 elections timelines, says…   She decried a situation where Nigeria is being celebrated as having the largest economy yet this has not resulted in commensurate revenue generation for the country and government. “Nigeria is faced with challenges in mobilizing domestic funds necessary for human capital development and infrastructure that are both drivers of sustainable economic growth and development. “Our current revenue to GDP ratio of about seven per cent is unsatisfactory and we are keen on improving this by implementing various initiatives,” Ahmed said. She explained that “the case remains the same with our current contribution between oil and non-oil GDP, for which our analysis on oil revenue to oil GDP reveals as 39 per cent while non-oil revenue to non-oil GDP as 4.2 per cent”. “Our Value Added Tax revenue to GDP in Nigeria for example stands at less than one per cent, 0.8 per cent, which compares unfavourably to ECOWAS average of 3.4 per cent,” Ahmed said. She said government had recently issued a tax expenditure statement call circular to relevant agencies of government indicating guidelines and instructions for strict adherence, compliance, and reporting. She commended the ECOWAS intervention to revamp tax generation and blocking leakages through Implementation of the Programme for Tax Transition in West Africa (PATF). Director of Customs Union and Taxation, Salifou Tiemtore, said the PATF programme would strengthen regional fight against fraud, tax evasion, Illicit Financial Flows and other forms of corruption. He added that the successful implementation of PATF tools would also improve the management of domestic taxation in member states through efficient management of VAT and control of tax expenditures.