The persisting scarcity and high cost of aviation fuel, also known as JET A1, will come under control when the repair of Port Harcourt Refinery is completed or Dangote Refinery commences operations. Minister of Aviation Hadi Sirika, who spoke yesterday while responding to questions from State House Correspondents at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, however, reiterated that the aviation fuel crisis is not peculiar to Nigeria. The minister, who took the Secretary-General of International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), Juan Carlos Salazar, and his team to see President Muhammadu Buhari at the Villa, blamed the scarcity and high cost on the volatility of the international petroleum market and the Russia/Ukraine conflict. In the last few weeks, domestic airlines had complained about the spike in the price of aviation fuel and had threatened to withdraw their services. On plans to address the scarcity, the minister said: “We explained that the scarcity and high cost of Jet A1 in civil aviation is not peculiar to Nigeria. “It is a global phenomenon driven by many factors. Some of them include even low capacity to refine the product. “It’s also high demand around the world, it has increased activity and increased number of aeroplanes out there and users of this jet A1. Plus also the Ukraine crisis and many more. It’s a time when crude itself is so expensive.   ‘Why NSCDC adopted non-kinetic approach’     2022 UTME: JAMB rules out errors in scoring system     Aspirant seeks delegates’ support   “Today, it is in hundreds of dollars per barrel and not only the high cost of Jet A1 product in Nigeria. Also the peculiarity of the fact that we’re not refining the product, so to speak. “I did address the press a couple of days ago, saying by the grace of God, perhaps once Dangote Refinery is online or if the government fixes Port Harcourt Refinery, we will begin to refine this product and sell it. “As a stopgap measure, there’s an agreement that the airline operators of Nigeria would nominate either from  themselves or from other major oil marketers who should be given the opportunity to import this product and get the necessary foreign exchange for that purpose. “That will now increase more supply and perhaps drive down the cost. “So, this is not unique to Nigeria. Unfortunately, we’re going through this phase, but civil aviation from time always survives challenges. They come unfortunately but then you see civil aviation graphs keep going up. “We hope that this is a temporary thing around the world and we hope that Jet A1 will be very available everywhere and at a very good price. “We hope in the future they will learn to do away with all these carbon emitters and have much more cleaner energy, which will be more readily available for everybody on a very cheaper cost to make civil aviation transportation, the preferred choice.”