ON May 5, EbonyLife productions got the world talking after a short series entitled Blood Sisters debuted on Netflix. The joint production features Ramsey Noah, Kate Henshaw, Uche Jombo, Deyemi Okanlawon, Genevova Umeh, Gabriel Afolayan, Nancy Isime, and Ini-Dima-Okojie. Since its debut on Netflix, the short series has continued to draw attention and talks from film critics, and subscribers to Netflix. In a brief chat, three of the film’s main characters, Deyemi Okanlawon, Genevova Umeh, and Gabriel Afolayan spoke about their individual experiences in the film star as three siblings of the Ademola dynasty. Deyemi Okanlawon: My interpretation of Kola was intentional For Okanlawon, his interpretation of the character of Kola Ademola was intentional and calculative to ensure his character is perpetually engraved in the mind of viewers.   Basketball: D’Tigress beg Buhari to reverse two-year…     Nigeria needs a sports budget     Campaigns, ideas and 2023   “So everything you see about Kola was intentional and well calculated from the way he walks to the way he speaks, his gestures, and even how he shows his emotions. So it was a deliberate act to make sure viewers always remember Kola while watching till the end,” he said. Continuing, Okanlawon said, “So, as you rightly mentioned, my screen time was limited and I knew instinctively that even though the story was well written in such a way that this character will still be mentioned all through the story, I needed to leave a lasting impression on the viewers.” Genevova Umeh: I read a lot to act as Timeyin “How do you act the role of an addict…I read up a lot, and you watch people’s stories, life stories and there’s a bunch of information about the reasons people do things and the reasons they do it the way they do it and choose to continue,” Genevova Umeh said as she tries to capture her experience. “Again, there’s a lack of control that comes with it and finding the reality of this drug addict and what makes her loveable regardless of these flaws that she had and again, she is just somebody that has a whole lot of love to give and looking for where to pour it into and her family isn’t trusting and supporting enough and she finds love in strange places.” Gabriel Afolayan: Steamy scenes took psychological efforts The role of Femi Ademola was brought to life by Gabriel Afolayan. With steamy scenes alongside Kehinde Bankole, Afolayan explains how it took psychological efforts. “So the thing is it was fun and that particular scene is always the most difficult to shoot because there’s a lot of presence there and what you are even doing is choreography, not real sex,” he began. “It’s like a pseudo dance that you are having and only professionals will know this because half of the time, it appears steamy but this is a dance that will make the lens pleasurable when people get to see it. So for me, it’s a whole lot of psychological work and you have it behind your mind that this is work and it’s safe. Most importantly, it is safe, so you are relaxed and you are just doing your thing and your co-actor is all let go.”