Recovery for global carriers affected by the COVID-19 pandemic is moving at snail pace. As many countries lift lock downs, remove impediments to travel and other restrictions that barred some carriers from returning to their routes, airlines are consolidating on frontier market, reports KELVIN OSA-OKUNBOR. Post-recovery efforts are pushing global carriers to look in the direction of frontier markets. For many European, Middle East and Africa carriers, Nigeria is one way to go because of its huge market. Reason: Its population, geographical location, emerging markets and the propensity of its people to connect with other parties for commerce, and leisure, among others. To drive recovery in the promising market, United Arab Emirates (UAE), carrier Emirates Airlines last week recalibrated its hold on the Nigerian market by  its commitment and  long- standing partnership with travel partners and agencies. The move, according to the carriers officials, is to consolidate on its partnership and regain its dominance on the route. At an event to recognise the services of top travel agents in Lagos, the carrier said the gathering was the first  since the outbreak of the pandemic. The airline’s top management, led by Badr Abbas, the Senior Vice President Commercial Operations in Africa, honoured the contributions of the travel agents to Emirates’post-pandemic recovery. Country Manager and the Emirates team in Nigeria, Paulos Legesse, who hosted the event, said the meeting was another demonstration of the strategic importance of the country’s market to the airline.   Wanted: Infrastructure upgrade for airports     Experts to discuss ‘SunSet airports’     Our worries, by aviation unions   He added: “Emirates Airline and Nigeria share a very special relationship that goes back to almost 20 years, and we have been connecting Nigerian travellers to a global network, which spans nearly 130 destinations, making it easier to connect with friends, family, trade and tourism opportunities. “We have been eager to visit Nigeria, a market that is very important to us, to meet with the people that have supported us, even in the most difficult of times. Throughout this journey, you, our loyal travel agents, have been an integral part of our rebuilding efforts, for which we are extremely grateful. We look forward to your continued support in the years ahead.” He continued: “It has been a challenging two years for all of us, and  we are navigating the road to recovery, hopefully gaining an even stronger footing for the future.  The word ‘Together’ is key and has always been so for us at Emirates.”   Recovery is not a unilateral effort. It is through collaboration and meaningful partnerships that we move forward with recovery, and collectively prepare to address the pent-up demand for travel to and from Nigeria and across our network.” The airline also organised a workshop in Lagos for 60 travel trade partners to provide them with the latest updates and information on the airline, its route network and fleet in service, the ramp up of operations in both Lagos and Abuja, new routes for the airline globally, updates on its new Premium Economy product, up-to-date information on its customer and booking policies, the latest on Emirates Gateway partner portal, in addition to other topics.   Emirates operates 12 flights weekly to two cities to Lagos, and Abuja. By September 1,  the carrier said it will ramp up its operations to 21 in line with increasing demand for international travel from the market. He said: “Emirates flew over 19 million passengers across its network in the last financial year. It flyers can look forward to another distinctive Emirates travel experience as the airline unveils its full Premium Economy offering onboard and on ground, starting 1 August 2022. “The new cabin class, which offers luxurious seats, more legroom, and a service to rival many airlines’ business offerings, will be available to Emirates customers travelling on popular A380 routes. “Once onboard, customers will immediately notice the quiet luxury in Emirates’ Premium Economy cabin. A wood panel finishing similar to Business Class sets the cabin’s mood, and each seat is designed to provide optimal comfort and support with 6-way adjustable headrests.”