A presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Rotimi Amaechi, has declared that the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) does not have good presidential aspirants, even with the likes former Vice President Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, among others in the party. He also stated that the credibility of the eventual presidential candidate of the APC is essential during the 2023 race.  Without a credible candidate, the governing party would lose the crucial election, the minister said. Amaechi, the Minister for Transportation, stated these at Constantial Hotel, Airport  Road, Benin, while meeting with APC’s delegates in Edo State. The two-term governor of Rivers State was earlier at the palace of Oba of Benin, Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II, where he was specially hosted by the first-class monarch for over three hours.   2023: Battle of the titans for Senate seats in Imo     2023: Familiar faces square off in contest for Abia Senate…     2023: Newcomers battle old hands for senate seats in Cross…   The presidential aspirant, while addressing the APC’s delegates, said: “Be asking the many presidential aspirants critical questions. If you ask the right questions, most of the presidential aspirants will not indicate interest to vie. I have come with experience to serve. I found a solution to the insecurity in Rivers State. “If the presidential aspirants give you money, collect it, but vote your conscience, in order to move Nigeria forward. How much did they have before? Where did they get the money they are now spending? I can account for my period in office. Vote according to the capacity of the presidential aspirants. I am assuring you that if you vote for me, you will not regret it. “Credibility of the eventual presidential candidate of APC for the 2023 race is very essential, if not, the governing party will lose the election. Out of all of us (presidential aspirants) from the South-South geopolitical zone, who can they (delegates and electorate) trust? If you pick the wrong candidate for the 2023 poll, APC will lose. I have evidence of my contributions to APC and Nigeria. PDP does not have good presidential aspirants.” Amaechi also reiterated that as Rivers governor, he placed emphasis on infrastructural and human capital development, which he continued at the federal level, while assuring that the Lagos-Calabar rail line would have links with Edo State, Asaba in Delta state and Onitsha in Anambra state, with the project to commence in the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari.