Lagos State House of Assembly Deputy Speaker Wasiu Eshinlokun-Sanni has served as a council chairman and party secretary. The senatorial aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos Central District spoke with Deputy Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU on his plans and preparations for the primary. Why are you contesting for Senate? My decision to go for the Senate is in furtherance of my intention to give qualitative representation to the people of Lagos Central. Before now, I  have  been in Lagos State House of Assembly. I am a third term member of the House. I think that I am the most experienced among the contestants. For seven years now, I have been deputy speaker. I feel I should make myself available for service at the centre. Our party, AD, AC, ACN has not won at the federal level. But, since 2015, APC have been winning at the national level. So, it is time to play politics at the national level, to provide qualitative representation to my people. Is the position actually vacant? If it is not vacant, I won’t be contesting. If tomorrow it is not vacant, I won’t contest. It is going to be vacant. That is why I am contesting. What are the problems of your district, which you hope to articulate on the floor of the Upper Chamber, if you are elected as senator? The first and foremost, Lagos is below the sea level, especially the Lagos Central; particularly Lagos Island, Eti-Osa seem to be below the sea level. Ikorodu, I think they are higher up there. So, what we have noticed is that gradually, flooding started creeping into our local government.  There is need to attract funding to solve these problems. We need to attract the Ecological Fund to do all of these. In Lagos Central, I think the Agiyan Water Works and Iju Water Works need a lot of repairs. I spoke with Mr. Governor. They are awarding the contract. But, beyond that, we need the kind of intervention that was given to Lagos State Water Corporation in those days by the World Bank. To do all of that, we need the assistance of the Federal Government.  I think by giving my force to that, we can attract good funding to resolve all these issues. There is also the issue of Lagos State being given a special status, that we must continually articulate and fight for. May we, the explanation has not been enough. Or may be, we have not lobbied enough. I think that my presence at the Red Chamber will give voice to this. The simple question, the simple explanation is when you look at all those countries that have developed or are developing, a case study is Dubai. Despite the fact that Abu Dhabi is the capital of the Emirate, they still give money, funding to Dubai. When Dubai develops, there is what is called backward integration. When Dubai is filled up, when the industries started coming, educational development,  you see a whole road,  many universities. Gradually, it crept back to Abu Dhabi. So, basically in Nigeria, Lagos is like 10 percent of the population of Nigeria. If you look at the population of Nigeria and the population of Lagos, you find out that representatives of the people of Nigeria are domiciled in Lagos State. No matter which tribe you are from, you have a presence in Lagos State. Developing Lagos is like developing Nigeria. The moment the development continues, it will go back to Oyo, Ekiti. Therefore, as Abuja is being developed, Lagos should be developed so that as people visit Abuja, they also visit Lagos. We  want a development that would result into backward integration. All areas in Nigeria will start developing. We need to explain all of these to our colleagues as citizens of the country, that developing Lagos is like developing Nigeria. The benefits go to all. Beyond that, there is the issue of revenue allocation that we have to deal with in Nigeria. The constitution provides for derivation. They are using 13 percent derivation for producers of the natural resources, gas and oil. That in itself is discriminative because there are also economic products in other regions of the country. The Customs come and they get a lot of money for the country. The taxes for banks, a lot. What we are saying is that you need to give us derivation on all the monies the Federal Government is getting from Lagos. It should not be restricted to natural products alone. Out if the money you get from the states, give them derivation. I think what they have taken from Lagos, from the port, is close to a trillion. Even, their budget is now N2 trillion. Corporate taxes, a lot. VAT, a lot. Majority, like 60 percent of internally generated revenue for Nigeria comes from Lagos State.  We are simply asking: give us derivation from what you are taking from us. It is a single argument. It is fair to these areas of the country to get derivation from natural products. They should give Lagos derivation on either economic or natural. What is the assurance that you will beat other contestants and emerge as candidate? I am just telling them that, basically, when someone applies for this kind of job, you look at dome factors or considerations. One, are you loyal to your party? Two, are you emotionally stable? Do you have enough integrity or you will start jumping from one party to the other? Forum shopping or what we call predatory politics; looking for opportunities, jumping from PDP to APC. If APC is not doing well, they go to NRC. We shoukd look at that because anybody with that tendency cannot be trusted with that kind of position.   PDP should zone ticket to South, says Jane     Olafeso: ‘Many 2023 presidential aspirants are jesters’     ‘Oyetola has performed excellently’   We should look at experience. Do you have cognate experience? Do you have enough educational qualification to pull you through? I have a Masters in International Law and Diplomacy from UNILAG. I am not a dull scholar. I still have 3.69 GPA. I had Grade One in Secondary School. I was actually one of the best in my faculty or college in my university.  I have been to almost all institutions in the world. I have been to Harvad Law School. I have been to Harvad Kennedy School of Government. I have to New York Institute of Management. I have been trained; I have been sponsored by the United States Government; United States Agency for International Development, the consortium for international development, to understudy development agencies in US, and the legislature, including Brasca, Missisippi, Indiana, Ontario. I have, as we speak now, 11 years of legislative experience. By next year, it will be 12; eight years at the topmost level. I am not going to be a new comer. I am not going to start learning how to move motions, present arguments, how to run bills, or lobby when it comes to budgetary provisions. Other contestants do not have legislative experience. Only one said he has a cumulative experience of less than two years; three months-October to December, 1983, and one year and three months during the  botched Third Republic. Add the two together, it us less than two years. And he had left almost 30 years ago. The others, the don’t. They have not been there before. They only want like the appellation of senator. Some don’t have that integrity. Some started with us in AD. They said they couldn’t win. They ran to PDP. They got ministerial appointment there. When it was not that rossy, they ran back to the APC. So, if it is not going well for APC, God forbid, they will run to another party. That is predatory politics, opportunist politics. That kind of people cannot be trusted with the mandate of the people. They betrayed us in the past. The other aspirant, I can remember vividly during the SDP, when Abiola won and there was annulment, and there was interim government, he went with Sarumi to interim government. They can’t suffer. Now, they have been getting opportunities for what they did not suffer for. At the advent of this Fourth Republic, he was somewhere in the US. He fought for nothing. He stood for nothing. Now, democracy is thriving, they have continued to benefit. They are reaping where they did not sow. Basically, others have no experience. I have stood for the party. I have served the party. I was vice chairman of Ward C in Isale-Eko. I rose to become the pioneer state secretary of APC. I have never for once left my party for another party and not all my aspirations have been met. But, I still stand firmly behind my party. I continue to contribute my quota to the development of my party, my state. I think I am the best candidate, going forward.  What do you make of the withdrawal forms attached to your nomination firms? That is a party thing. I think they will discuss it at the appropriate time. I have seen it before. It is not in APC alone they will ask you to write your withdrawal letter. I think it is a party thing. If that is the decision of the top hierarchy, so be it. I thing there is a lot of safeguard for anybody. Which mode of primary do you prefer; consensus, direct primary or the indirect mode? That decision is for the party to make. I will be cool with any decision they take. But, they have said there is no consensus, that everybody will go yo the primary. It is like indirect primary. They will now tell us who and who are the party delegates. What are the factors or conditions that will guarantee a free and fair primary? It is to give a level playing ground to aspirants. Let everybody know who and who will be delegates, at least two weeks to the primary. There should be accessibility to the delegates. What are your expectations about the presidential primary of your party? My expectation is that it will be free, there will be a level playing ground and our leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, will win.