The former Managing Director, Omnicom Solutions Limited, Lanre Olaniyan, has decried the rate at which the much needed foreign exchange (forex) was leaving the shores of the country through offshore purchase of software by small medium enterprises (SMEs).Mr. Olaniyan, who stepped down from the position after 14 years of leading the telecoms company, said he is passionately working on a tech solution that will help the Nigerian economy retain the forex that many of its over 48 million SMEs spend on retail software developed in other countries. He said: “We have created a solution that can help them do the same thing, better than those applications would do, and we are confident that business owners will find it as useful as we believe they (SMEs) will.” Speaking on his exit from the company, he explained that contrary to the usual expectation, he did not quit the company but only decided to step aside to focus on other interests. He said: “I’m still part of the Omnicom team, and I only stepped aside as the MD. Knowing that I have given my best to Omnicom, I believe the stage is set for someone new to run the company and take it to greater heights while I sit on the board and give advisory support’’. “I am still involved in the business; I am aware of its activities, and I continue to lend my know-how and industry influence to enable the growth of the organization.” Known for his private lifestyle, he further revealed that his decision to step aside had been reached for a while due to several reasons but was only made official in March 2022, describing the development as the latest good news from his over 15-year career in the Nigerian telecom sector, and expressing gratitude to God for the many successes the company achieved under his leadership.   Customs set to introduce unified charges for vehicles     Manufacturers seek more investment in automotive sector     Health insurance now mandatory as Buhari signs new law   While stressing that the company would remain focused on its vision, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) alumnus also provided a brief insight into its history. “Omnicom is my brainchild; I came up with the idea in 2007, and I invited some of my friends to join me, and since then, I’ve been the managing partner responsible for the day-to-day operation of the business. I like to see this new development as part of our growth as individuals and as a business,” he opined. Olaniyan led Omnicom Solutions from its startup years into a multibillion-naira company with several projects in Nigeria and across the West African subregion, as revealed during its 10th anniversary in 2018. “In the sub sector where we work, we are one of the biggest. Pre-COVID, we had more than 500 staff, and even during- COVID, while everybody was downsizing, we were hiring more, and we never stopped working throughout the COVID -19 pandemic. “I have poured my ideologies about how a company should be into Omnicom, and they have given us amazing results. Omnicom grew from a-4 Million company to a multi billion-naira company, and I think we have done a lot already. Now, the company can only go higher and get bigger, and I believe I have built the foundation for that to happen.,” he said. On his next move, Olaniyan said: “I am involved in many projects and other ventures, and some of those ventures need attention. They need nurturing, just as I did for Omnicom. So those are what I will be dedicating my time to, moving on.” With a background in Electrical Engineering, Olanrewaju Olaniyan is also an alumnus of The University of Texas at Austin, where he got a Postgraduate Degree in Data Science and Business Analytics.