A national political dialogue on the constitutional future of Nigeria is scheduled to hold today in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to crystallise the process of fashioning a peoples’ constitution that Nigerians have been yearning for. The event is being put together by the Nigerian Political Summit Group (NPSG), in conjunction with some eminent Nigerians, statesmen and leaders of thought under the umbrella of the National Consultative Front (NCFront). Some of the eminent personalities that will be invited to participate in the event include President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, as well as former presidents/heads of state and the leadership of the National Assembly. The Chairman of the National Planning Committee for the conference, Prof Pat Utomi who made the disclosure at a press conference in Lagos said it is going to be a non-partisan, multi-stakeholders conference to bring “to the public view, work that has been ongoing, by reviewing the output of previous political reform conferences”. Prof Utomi said the process of drafting a new constitution that would be placed in the public arena for debate began last year when the NCFront, in conjunction with the NPSG, set up a committee to work out the modalities for the project. He said the urgency of constitutional reform cannot be overstated. He said Nigerians had waited for the government in the past to show the way forward. But, today, Nigerians no longer believe in the government.   Abiodun submits nomination form, meets NWC members     Danjuma La’ah is new Senate Deputy Minority Whip     Ebonyi PDP governorship aspirant promises new era   Utomi who is also the chairman of NCFront added: “The patriots’ challenge here is to stimulate rational public conversation by stakeholders on the issues that affect the constitutional future of Nigeria so that those who seek power, confronted by the extant existential challenge between life and death may see enough light to choose life that we may live. “The journey to this dialogue began more than two years ago on October 1 when we convened a dialogue to heal the wounds of Nigeria, and invited 70 accomplished elder statesmen from Alhaji Ahmed Joda, to Chief Mbazulike Amaechi, Pa Ayo Adebanjo, Chief Edwin Clark, Mallam Tanko Yakassai, Prof Ango Abdullahi and Professor Isawa Elaigwu to reflect on Nigeria’s journey and suggest answers to the Quo Vadis question as Sony Okosuns more clearly put it in the song ‘Which way Nigeria; I want to know’.” He said the present effort to steer the public conversation towards drafting a new constitution has become necessary “to avoid the amputation that is consequent upon the next stage of this disease”. He added: “Just like Conscience is an open wound and only truth can heal it, Nigeria’s existential crisis of now can only be healed by truth seen from the prism of the dignity of the human person and the purging from all of a willful desire to dominate others which is the root of fascism.” The professor of political economy said Nigeria is at a crossroads and that many of those warming up to contest the presidency during next year’s general elections “do not seem to have their hands wrapped around the issues of how we can continue to live together in a way that advances the common good”. He said the goal of the organisers is to hear the voices of all, including the president, the vice president, the opposition, faith leaders and royal fathers, youth and the grassroots.