The Chairman, Senate Committee on Industries and the lawmaker representing Lagos East, Senator Adetokunbo Abiru, has submitted his expression of interest and nomination forms for the All Progressives Congress (APC) Lagos East Senatorial District ticket. Abiru, who is seeking a fresh term at the Senate, won the Lagos East senatorial by-election in December 2020. He replaced the late Senator Adebayo Osinowo, who died on June 15, 2020. There has been a groundswell of support for Abiru’s re-election bid across the Lagos East  District, as groups, eminent leaders and residents adjudged his performance in office in the last 16 months as outstanding and unprecedented. An independent support group, Abiru Consolidated Team (ACT), led by its convener, Peju Akinyemi and co-convener, Shakiru Seidu, paid a courtesy visit to Abiru at his constituency office in Ikorodu to pledge support for his ambition. Akinyemi said the group was impressed by the outstanding achievements of Abiru within a short period in office, adding that the senator championed bills, motions and programmes that had tremendous impact on the larger number of people.   PDP urged to field indigene for Ikorodu Federal Constituency…     My experience under Buhari places me ahead of others, says…     Why I will stand with Yahaya Bello, by Hafsat Abiola   He said: “Distinguished senator sir, Abiru Consolidation Team (ACT) is a child of necessity, created for the twin purposes of propagating your #DoingGood activities across Lagos East Senatorial District and for mobilisation of support for your re-election to the Senate.” Tokunbo Abiru Ambassadors (T A Ambassadors) support group has also thrown its weight behind the re-election bid of Senator Abiru. In a statement by the Coordinator of the group, Dr. Seriki Muritala and Secretary, Olafare Comfort, the group said: “Our desire to put up with him for a second term was based on our belief in his incredible scorecards, which we can attest to. We all know that making laws is a lawmaker’s principal task. Senator Abiru did not fail in this regard. To his name are 14 bills and two motions at different stages of legislative considerations.” Earlier, prominent leaders in the district, including members of the prestigious Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) – Senatorial Leader Busura Alebiosu, Asiwaju Olorunfunmi Basorun and Chief Akanni Seriki Bamu had endorsed Abiru for a fresh term. Senator Solomon Olamilekan Adeola (Yayi) also attested to the enviable achievements and sound contributions of Senator Abiru during debates at plenaries. He said: “I can testify that his contributions in the Senate are excellent. His contribution to Finance Committee when agencies were invited is second to none. He asks professional questions and it has given the Finance Committee an edge. There is no rival. It is good for Lagos that he will come back as a ranking senator.”