Governorship aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Abia State, Mayor Lucky Igbokwe, has promised to declare free and compulsory education from primary to secondary school if elected governor in 2023. The philanthropist and governorship hopeful popularly known as Don Lulu made the promise while formally declaring for the top position at the PDP secretariat Umuahia. He decried the state of education in the state and promised to make the sector one of the focal points of his administration considering the pivotal role of education in every economy. He also promised to lift the state’s economy through Agriculture, Entertainment and Tourism. “I possess the requisite skills and experience required to harness the vast resources in the state for productive and developmental purposes. “My team and I are ready to turn around the fortunes of the state by revolutionising all the sectors of governance with focus on the masses. “If given the PDP ticket and elected governor, I will reposition Abia for economic prosperity by creating the enabling environment for industry to thrive, with a better approach to internally generated revenue that would reduce dependence on federation allocations.” “Education will be one of the major objectives of my aspiration, the sector will be reformed to include not only building of schools, but also the provision of incentives to teachers. “We’ll revisit the farm settlements, improve and empower the youth in particular and our people in general, through agriculture, the creative industries will receive massive boost under our watch. Tourism will be made more attractive and visitors will come to experience our beautiful cultural heritage and sites. We’ll escalate the commercial viability of our markets to unprecedented new levels with improved infrastructure and security. Mayor Igbokwe said he had all the needed qualities to make Abia great again, and solicited the votes of delegates at the forthcoming PDP primaries   Why Mohammed deserves PDP ticket, by Udenta     ‘APC needs credible primary to retain power’     Shekarau defects to NNPP   “Therefore, I urge all our brothers and sisters to give me, this opportunity to serve you, because you’ll  never regret it. “We intend to make Abia, a world class destination for everything beautiful like our people. “It’s time to close ranks and bring in the best of brains to Abia state. “I will ensure that there’s gender balance to give room for our women. We will ensure that more youths will be recognized and appreciated. “What we need is the right leadership, a candidate with good character, great antecedents and who is popular, if PDP needs to put its best forward for the poll and if it is serious to retain the seat in Abia. “I, Mayor Lucky Igbokwe is the right person and the best hand for the job. I have consistently proved that with my track record in philanthropy, business and human capacity development. “My footprints are everywhere in the state despite coming from Abia central. “I urge you all to come to the table and let’s take Abia to the most enviable heights we desire. “I pledge that nothing short of this will happen. I want us to know that the confidence in me is a confidence of hope, the future, the success, the restoration and the Freedom from fear.”