Despite calls for his sack from office, Central Bank Governor, Dr Godwin Emefiele, is free to pursue his presidential ambition, a group Green Alliance has stated. It said the CBN Governor has neither breached Section 9 of the CBN Act nor the 1999 Constitution, stressing that he will continue to seek the mandate of Nigerians to serve. The group argued although the Section 9 of CBN Act precludes him from any other employment or vocation while in office, seeking election into office of President of Nigeria was neither an employment or a vocation. it insisted that contesting the presidential election is an exercise of constitutional rights rather than engaging in employment or vocation. The group described as disappointing statements credited to Ondo Governor Rotimi Akeredolu on his presidential ambition. Akeredolu,in a statement on Friday night, urged President Muhammadu Buhari to sack the CBN governor for obtaining the APC presidential nomination form.   What you probably didn’t know about NYSC anthem composer,…     GenCos, NBET renegotiate contracted capacity – NERC     Come to Africa if you want to enjoy life, says Akon   Emefiele, who spoke through a group Green Alliance, in an statement by its convener, Wale Fapohunda, said that since the CBN Governor has not been disqualified by Section 137 of the 1999 Constitution as amended, he is free to contest the presidential election. According to Fapohunda, the 1999 Constitution provides Emefiele with enough grounds to exercise his constitutional rights while still occupying the office of the apex bank. Fapohunda faulted deliberate misinterpretation of section 9 of the CBN Act by persons with sinister motives. Part of the statement reads: “Moreso, the constitution is clear on rights of association, and rights to seek elective positions. And there is no impediment whatsoever on the exercise of such rights except such impediments are contained in the constitution. Contesting for the position of the president is an exercise of constitutional rights, and not an engagement in any employment or vocation.” In defining, vocation or employment as contained in the CBN Act, Fapohunda referred to a Supreme Court judgement in Shell Petroleum Company of Nigeria vs Federal Board of Inland Revenue 1996 8 NWLR Part 466 256, where it held that where the words of a statute are plain, precise and unambiguous, its ordinary and natural meaning should be given. The statement further added that “just as there is no law stopping Governor Akeredolu from appointing his son into sensitive government position in Ondo State when there are numerous other competent people in the state to man such position, there is no law stopping Dr. Emefiele to contest for the office of the president while still in office as the CBN governor.”