The Federal Government has taken over the King David University of Medical Sciences Teaching Hospital, Uburu in Ebonyi State. It followed a request by Governor David Umahi to President Muhammadu Buhari. The President announced the take-over at a state banquet organised in his honour. Umahi made the call at the hospital’s inauguration by the President as part of his two-day official visit to the state. The governor said the scope of the hospital was beyond the management of a state. “I had earlier pleaded with the President to approve the takeover and he said that we should go and celebrate and we have been celebrating since then. “It is good that the President is inaugurating the edifice and I am tempted to call it a Federal Teaching Hospital,” he said. Umahi said the hospital would help solve the country’s medical tourism challenges with its facilities. “The hospital has a heart surgery department, the best Magnetic Resonance Image (MRI) machines, among other top class facilities,” he said. While in Uburu, Ohaozara Local Government Area of the state, the President inaugurated the cancer centre at the university built and equipped by the Federal Government under TETFUND.   Man breaks into Soun’s palace, claims throne     Abuja-Kaduna train operation to resume     Vice chancellors plan Turkey trip for wives   Umahi said: ’’It is in the same standard as Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) and the state government also contributed to the project to bring it to completion.” At the inauguration of the Presidential Lodge at the Muhammadu Buhari International Airport, Onueke, the governor said the tarmac and runway, built with concrete, were 70 per cent completed and would be ready by the end of next month. The President inaugurated the five kilometres dualised airport road in Onueke, built by the state government; the reconstructed St Margaret Umahi International Market complex and a 750-metre length twin-flyover near the market. At the New Government House Abakaliki, the President commissioned the Muhammadu Buhari Presidential Lodge, the new Executive Council Chambers, the governor’s lodge, the Aisha Buhari First Lady’s Office and the governor’s office. The President commissioned the ultra-modern shopping mall and the Ecumenical Centre. After inspecting the Presidential Lodge, President Buhari told Umahi that he has created a lot of “problems” for his successor. He commended the governor on the quality of projects, saying he was not surprised. He said: ‘’I am not an engineer by discipline but my eyes are very clear, even through my eyeglasses. “I am impressed with this performance and I know the projects will last. I congratulate the governor on this feat and I am pleased to be associated with it.’’ The President’s jet arrived in Enugu at about 10:30 am yesterday. He was received by Umahi and Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi.