“Notwithstanding his neutrality in the contest, the president is wrong to be aloof when a fractious Nigeria seems to be hurtling down the slippery slope of intolerance and exclusion … The country is broken and divided; it needs healing. That healing will not come, and the brokenness will be exacerbated, if zoning is jettisoned. Political rhetoric has become inflamed, with southerners threatening doomsday should rotation be discarded, and northerners swearing they would keep power at any cost.” – Idowu Akinlotan, Nation, Sunday, 8th May 2022. It was widely in the news in early April this year that the revered cleric and elder statesman, Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye jolted the consciousness of the country when he declared his uncertainty regarding the 2023 elections. Listening to that message, first Sunday of April 2022, the man of God who is known not to be verbosely vociferous on political issues at a point challenged his hearers by saying, if you have received anything regarding the 2023 election, come out and say it now! I was personally piqued!! Curiously, is God silent regarding forward movement for Nigeria? Are there some things we have missed as a country? Are both leaders and followers sincere in the trajectory of Nigeria towards the elusive utopia akin to the promised land laced with milk and honey? As Nigeria is presently constituted, is this country – agglomeration of nations – not doomed to motion without movement socio -economically and politically? There are lots of anomalies and absurdities in the running of Nigeria politically, not only situated and synonymous with the ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), but equally afflicting the main opposition party, the People Democratic Party (PDP). Why fixate on only these two political parties while there are altogether 18 political parties in Nigeria? In the edition of this column published last week, it was empirically proven that from 1999 till 2019, all presidential elections without an exception had the winners in either of the two most popular political parties! This is verifiable from available statistics. In essence, all things being equal, either APC or PDP will produce the next president of Nigeria, if an election is held in 2023. Finally on Adeboye, it is good to remind leaders and followers that he was one of the most vehement and vociferous voices on restructuring. It was loud and clear. Quoting the Guardian newspaper of 4th October, 2020, the highly esteemed cleric succinctly stated inter alia: “Why can’t we have a system of government that will create what I will call the United States of Nigeria? Let me explain. We all know that we must restructure. It is either we restructure, or we break up, you don’t have to be a prophet to know that. That is certain – restructure or we break up.” Jettisoning Zoning?  By 29th May 2023, President Muhammadu Buhari would have spent eight years in the saddle. The main opposition party is poised to position presidency to the north thus jettisoning zoning which is expressly stated in the PDP’s constitution. If this is excusable for an opposition party, how about doing that which is politically exigent in the ruling party, APC? Are there not conscientious and concerned elders in these two parties, especially the ruling APC, who has the incumbent president from the north, to influence the party to do that which is politically expedient? Seemingly, APC is covertly angling and aping the position of PDP on zoning by not being categorical on this burning national issue. Could it be said that both parties are now pandering to the parochial, pedestrian, puerile and preposterous posture of the major social, cultural and political northern groups (mainly Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) and Northern Elders Forum (NEF))? It has been the vaunted and vouched position of these vociferous groups that since the north has the numerical strength and democracy being the game of numbers, then, come 2023, the presidency is the north’s inheritance! Are they considering and pondering on the fabrics that hold us together as nations of people called a country – Nigeria? What do these groups know about the history of Nigeria? How about our socio – cultural and political ties? Should numerical strength come into the political calculation in this season of agitations for self-determination, terrorism, banditry, killings, farmers – herders’ conflicts, and kidnapping ravaging the soul of Nigeria? Going further, the north, in combined numerical strength, could hold Nigeria’s jugular politically. Howbeit, in reality, the once unanimity and unison of the north is more of a facial and farcical expression in present day political context and calculation. Simon Kolawole, writing under the banner: “The cat and mouse game over zoning”, Thisday of Sunday, 8th May 2022 simply and squarely stated thus: “. . . in a diverse, multi-ethnic and multi-religious underdeveloped African society such as ours, there will always be fears of domination. People want to be assured that they would not be eternally disadvantaged because they do not have the numbers. Accommodation is partly assured when it is established that political power — which Nigerians perceive, rightly or wrongly, as the biggest dispenser of scarce opportunities — will not be monopolised by the biggest groups.” In a perceived atmosphere of apparent exclusion due to the southern region’s lower numerical strength, which no one knows the end of the circle, is there no danger of damaging the chord that binds and brings us together as a country of nations of people?   Presidency 2023? You have to be either for APC or PDP!     Ekiti 2022: Oyebanji’s strategic pillars of action: Going…     Trajectory 2023: Troublous trifecta?   Abnormalities and absurdities – Who will arrest this rot?  The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele, made a caricature of himself and his exalted office, for the first time in the history of Nigeria, by acceding to a faceless group request to run for the highest office in the land. Does he not have a right as a citizen to run? Definitely, but not when he is holding on to that office. He is expected to be objective and non – partisan in the discharge of his duties. However, unknown to most Nigerians, Mr. Emefiele is a card-carrying member of APC since 2019. The honourable thing to do is to resign! It is shameful that Emefiele with effrontery and impunity approached the court to ensure his enforcing his illegality on the rest of us with the government looking the other way! In the same vein, all serving ministers aspiring to run as presidential or gubernatorial candidates should throw in the towel as their counterparts in ruling parties at the state levels have done. Now that President Buhari has spoken, shocking them to the marrows, they would now do the needful! Are perks and powers of office so blinding to rational reasoning within the Nigerian context? It is both nauseating and indecorous! Even our serving chief law officer that is supposed to be an exemplar, the Honourable Minister of Justice and Attorney General, Mr. Abubakar Malami, is seemingly not fair and square in this matter! Really absurd!! Moreover, the list seems to be growing with the initial but rather persistent rumour of the erstwhile President Jonathan Goodluck throwing his hat to the ring. It eventually happened! Another ‘wonder’ of the 2023 election!! The once discarded and seemingly clueless head of a government embroiled and enmeshed in morbid and unbridled corruption ousted by APC is now being curried and courted into the party!!! This is interesting and intriguing to this columnist as a functional follower. One is curious to ask: when did Jonathan become a member of APC, which Ward, and when can a decampee (was formerly a member of PDP) run for the highest office in the land on the platform of his new party? Nigeria’s democracy is laughable! All these can be succinctly depicted as absurdities ad nauseam! As at the time of going to the press, this essayist learnt that former President Goodluck Jonathan was demanding for a condition. Condition? It is that the ‘consensus contraption’ be inserted into the APC terms and conditions for him to partake. Is this not already ensured and enhanced without being asked? This condition of bringing in the ‘consensus contraption’ through the backdoor has been sealed and settled by the Senator Abdullahi Adamu’s led National Working Committee of the APC in the proviso as an addendum to the nomination form. Quoting, Dr. Femi Orebe, Nation newspaper of Sunday 8th May, 2022: “That the APC leadership is not sincere has now been confirmed by the latest wonder from the party. As reported in several newspapers this past week, the party has now, like it was talking to school children, “ordered its presidential aspirants to sign a ‘Letter of Withdrawal’ which is attached to its nomination form before they could submit their nomination papers.” This is nothing short of smuggling in the ‘consensus contraption’ through the backdoor, sine qua non! In any case, no aspirant is permitted to engage the party in legal redress in case of any perceived misdemeanor in the course of conduct of the primary election. This is another absurdity if there is no hidden agenda, ab initio! However, there is still room to make amends as hope is not lost; and there is still time to ensure decorum and decency in jointly developing and deepening Nigeria’s nascent democracy. Patriotic elders should wade in and refuse to maintain mute mode in the face of annoying absurdities and abnormalities.