Nigerians have taken to social media to demand justice over a sound engineer, David Imoh, 38, set ablaze at Lekki. They asked the Police and State Government to bring the suspected culprits to book. The Nation reports Imoh was lynched and subsequently set ablaze by a mob consisting of motorcycle operators on Thursday on his way home for reasons yet to be known. While an account claimed the disagreement was over N100, another alleged that Imoh and two of his friends were accused of kidnapping and attacked by the motorcyclists said to be of northern extraction. It was alleged that Imoh boarded the motorcycle from a club to a location at Admiralty Way when a disagreement ensued between him and the rider. The argument was said to have degenerated into a fight which attracted other motorcyclists. They were said to have beaten the sound engineer and his friends who came to intervene with sticks, clubs and other dangerous instruments.   JUST IN: Supreme Court to hear suit by Buhari, Malami…     Confusion among Kaduna APC delegates as El-Rufai presents…     ‘My running mate’s defection inconsequential’   Lagos Police spokesman (PPRO), SP Benjamin Hundeyin, who confirmed the killing said all the culprits have been arrested. The Nation observed the trending hashtag – #JusticeForDave has become a topic on social media especially on Twitter, with over 12,000 tweets. Reacting, Journalist Abiodun Alade said: “I am in shock, reading about what happened to David who was lynched and burned to death by a group of Okada riders at Lekki Phase 1. @jidesanwoolu has to get to the root of this. This is against everything that a mega city represents.” Gyal Eazzie @Gyal_eazzie tweeted: “#JusticeForDave that was how this promising young man was killed for no reason. David used to be the sound engineer of my band before he moved to another one. The fact that beer band denied them is just really annoying and sad. Such a shame.” Femi Balogun said: “I don’t think Lagos is as safe as many had thought. These guys from the north are all around us. They came in disguise of business, ‘okada ‘. They are gradually believing they own Lagos too. #JusticeforDave” Ponman Nden queried: “#JusticeForDave my question is. Were people not around when Dave was killed? Why didn’t they try to help immediately? Is that how cowardly we the Christians are? This Justice for Dave won’t be here if he was helped in the first place.” @lordesszzetta tweeted: Dave was not a yahoo boy. Dave was not a kidnapper nor a ritualist! Dave was a legit young hardworking sound engineer that was set on fire & killed by a mob for no just reason in front of the venue of his show on Admiralty road. Say no to jungle justice! #JusticeForDave #RIPDave