The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has commended Henkel’s commitment to the growth of the manufacturing sector. Director-General, MAN, Segun Ajayi-Kadir, gave the commendation in Lagos, when the top management of Henkel Nigeria visited the association. He said: “We are looking forward to shaping the manufacturing environment in Nigeria in consonance with global standards. We are confident that this is achievable by harnessing the expertise and experience of members with demonstrable international footprints and strong commitment to the domestic economy, like Henkel.” On hand to receive the Henkel delegation on behalf of the association at its head office, MAN House, Ikeja, were Director-General Segun Ajayi-Kadir, and Director, Corporate Services, Ambrose Oruche, among other top officials. Henkel’s delegation was led by its Chairman/Managing Director, Rajat Kapur, who was accompanied by Head of Manufacturing, Roman Rylyk, and Head of R&D, Innocent Ojiaku.   ‘Manufacturers spend N77.22b on alternative energy’     Global mishandled baggage rates spike amid recovery     Nigeria has huge opportunity in mango export, say experts   Kapur said: “We are a leading detergents manufacturer in Nigeria, committed to growing our business and creating sustainable value for our customers, consumers, employees, and the country as a whole. We are a trusted partner and a strong contributor to the economy.” He added that in demonstration of Henkel’s confidence in the economy, they were open to further collaborate with various stakeholders on how to boost performance and grow investments. “Secure energy supply, the availability of critical raw materials, and access to foreign exchange are among the key topics within the manufacturing industry in Nigeria. As a leading multinational, who is committed to growing our business and industrial activities safely, responsibly, and successfully, we believe that open dialogue and exchange with key stakeholders is critical,” Kapur pointed out.     Ajayi-Kadir said: “We, at the MAN, are open to ideas from member companies on ways to improve the environment for doing business in Nigeria. We consider the topics raised today relevant to the manufacturing sector and are committed to continuous collaboration to find solutions. Our door remains open and we encourage you to continue to play an active part in the Association’s activities, as it would not just address some of the issues you raised today, but will also help the manufacturing sector as a whole.”