Former Imo Governor Senator Rochas Okorocha has asked the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to obey subsisting Court judgements stopping it from harassing, intimidating or prosecuting him. The Imo West Senator, who was arrested after officials of the Commission raided his Abuja residence, charged the anti-graft agency to allow rule of law prevail in his case by withdrawing all charges and investigation against him. Okorocha said it was paramount for the EFCC to comply with December 6, 2021 Port Harcourt judgment by Justice Dalyop Pam, restraining it from investigating and arresting him. Speaking through his lead counsel of Olanipekun & Co Chamber at a briefing in Abuja, Barr. Steve Asimobi, the lawmaker maintained the judgment subsists, saying the anti-graft agency has refused to appeal the judgment.   Two Ekiti Rep members secure tickets as one loses return bid     BREAKING: INEC extends deadline for primaries by six days     Confusion, gunshots mar APC House of Reps primary in Ondo   Asimobi said: ”The Attorney-General of the Federation consequent upon this judgement and the letter written by my principal, Ola Olaonipekun SAN wrote a letter to the EFCC Chairman on the 26th day of April, 2022.” He stressed that the AGF, Abubakar Malami had earlier advised the EFCC accordingly by telling the commission not to do anything to Okorocha. According to him: ‘Gentlemen, there is a judgment which the court affirms today and a letter. You know the procedure. You know Malami has been having problem with Magu before Magu was removed. ”It is the responsibility of the Attorney-General to prosecute, through the Dircetor of Prosecution and as chief law officer, he has advised that nothing should be done and they should obey the court orders, EFCC we didn’t know they also appealed this judgement and today the judge said “no I will not reverse it.” This judgement still subsists. ”It means every arrest or prosecution against Senator Rochas is null and void. Let’s see what Monday holds. I’ll advise that if you know them, they should honourably withdraw every charges against Rochas, so, that the sanctity of the judiciary will be maintained and rule of law be upheld”.