The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) and the Nigerian Navy (NN) yesterday reiterated their commitment to continue the fight against piracy and oil theft in the nation’s maritime domains and the Gulf of Guinea (GoG,). The fight, the two agencies of the Federal Government said, became necessary to keep the gains so far recorded in the last two years and solidify the security status in the country’s waterways and the GoG. Addressing stakeholders from various countries in Abuja yesterday, during the fifth plenary of the Gulf of Guinea (GoG) Maritime Collaboration Forum(MCF), the Director-General of NIMASA, Dr Bashir Jamoh, called for more action to achieve the legal framework to enable the Shared Awareness and Deconfliction (SHADE) Initiative successful. The Gulf of Guinea Maritime Collaboration Forum SHADE was established by Nigeria and 22 Countries of the ICC last July, to implement more effective operational counter piracy cooperation between navies both regional and international as well as the shipping industry and reporting centres of the Yaounde Code of Conduct, MDAT GOG and the IMB. The concept of SHADE, it was learnt, is to ensure an efficient collaborative framework towards improving maritime security within the Gulf of Guinea (GoG) area. The GoG SHADE also offers a veritable platform for GoG nations and other partner nations to congregate and cooperate to address the piracy challenge facing the region. Jamoh said the achievements in maritime safety were based on the partnership between NiMASA, the Nigerian Navy and other regional bodies. The renewed commitment between NIMASA and the Nigerian Navy, Jamoh said, is to secure critical maritime infrastructure, create enabling environment for maritime trade, safe shipping and boost economic activities in the nation’s maritime domain, among others. The DG added that the apex maritime regulatory agency purposely acquired some of its Deep Blue assets to assist the Nigerian Navy (NN) in the war against piracy, oil theft and to promote collective action that will address the unfortunate situation affecting the economy and preventing people from enjoying the dividends of calmer seas in Nigeria and across the region. Addressing reporters at Transcorp Hilton venue of the event, Jamoh pledged to strengthen the existing collaboration between NIMASA and the Nigerian Navy on security to protect the country’s territorial waters against the criminals. His words: “No one can easily forget the frequent reports of attacks on ships and the kidnapping of seafarers in the Gulf of Guinea in 2019 and 2020 when they reached their peak and the attendant negative economic effect on the seaborne trade in the region. “But the IMB has not only affirmed that piracy is at a 28-year all-time lowest in the region, Nigeria which once seemed the worst culprit has been taken off its Red List even as we celebrate almost two-quarters of zero attacks in 2022. You will agree with me that the partnership between the ICC and Nigeria has delivered quickly. Thanks to the support of the international community. Permit me to especially thank the audiences at all past SHADE plenaries and the working group members who have shown unprecedented engagement with its objectives. I congratulate you on your significant achievements so far. The 30 Working Groups and Four virtual plenary meetings have been the real drivers of change. According to Jamoh, their collaboration is aimed at putting in place a stronger platform that would permanently stamp out maritime piracy, oil theft and other crimes in the nation’s waters and GoG. “While it is important to recognise success so far made, the future must however be the focus. Our deliberations over the next two days must be forward-looking even as it seeks to provide specific ways to maintain the current momentum, offer concrete solutions to ensure sustainability; Sustain the activities already achieved and build on success and deepen the relationship with the YCOC and other stakeholders such as the UNODC, and G7++FPGG.   Minister seeks more investments in economic zones     African start-up joins Mastercard programme     Why JPMorgan delisted Nigeria from emerging market list   He said NIMASA is working assiduously with the Nigerian Navy to end piracy so that the country can benefit immensely from the rising price of oil and also to protect the maritime environment. “More is yet to be done to reinforce the narrative of a united front forged between navies and industry to act in order to enshrine deterrence amongst criminals. Truly, more is yet to be done by all and sundry to guaranty sustainability on all fronts of progress and that is why we have gathered here to chart the way forward. More remains to be done in terms of the legal framework to enable the SHADE’s existence; the legal finish needed by more countries for better and seamless transfer agreements and harmonization of laws and the sharing of information. “The SHADE must be nurtured to remain a force for good. As members we owe a collective duty to this forum to keep its dialogue robust and guard it from slipping into complacency as to become a toothless bulldog. Our SHADE must be strengthened through cooperation, coordination, collaboration and communication. Security success can never be solitary achievements. “There must be cooperation between regional navies like we saw recently between Nigeria and Benin,” Jamoh said He also noted that the SHADE programme will enable all players in the Gulf of Guinea understand their limitations, to coordinate and communicate effectively. Jamoh, also emphasised that the SHADE must be nurtured to remain a force for good, adding that as members, they owe a collective duty to this forum to keep its dialogue robust and guard it from slipping into complacency as to become a toothless bulldog. “Our SHADE must be strengthened through cooperation, coordination, collaboration and communication. Security success can never be solitary achievements”, he said. “There must be cooperation between regional navies like we saw recently between Nigeria and Benin; coordination between local and international interests such as the one that led to the formation of the NIMASA Joint Industry Working Group; collaboration at the regional level as provided by the SHADE; and constant communication with the IMO about our efforts and progress opens the door of necessary support for our work”. In his address, the Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Awwal Gambo sought more collaboration and commitments in the fight against piracy, oil theft, armed robbery and other criminal activities within the Gulf of Guinea region. He explained that the safety of shipping in the recovery of what was lost during the outbreak of Coronavirus is necessary. The Chief of Naval Staff, who was represented by Rear Admiral Saidu Garba, said: “The safety and security of shipping in the GoG is a vital enabler in the recovery process of global economy and trade suffered due to COVID-19 pandemic”. Gambo, stating that the cases of oil theft have reduced, noted that the Navy was in talks with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to tackle it. “We are working very with the NNPC to have Naval personnel at the point of loading. The Navy has not been there for over 20 years but we are working to be present at the point of loading and of course at the point of discharge. “There will be greater visibility and accountability for petroleum products that are being produced and exported out of Nigeria,” he assured. The SHADE, which is an operational response forum to facilitate better response at sea to tackle piracy, is made up of individuals and representatives who report to the stakeholders made up of various groups spanning regional navies and the shipping industry.