The Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA), manager of Nigeria’s sovereign wealth fund, has grown its net assets by 19 per cent to N919.73 billion  its audited results for the 2021 financial year has shown. The strong financial performance underscores the resilience of the NSIA’s investment strategy and the quality of its earnings given the challenging macro environment. Highlights of NSIA’s activities and performance during the period also showed it recorded  ninth year of continuous earnings in spite of volatility and cyclical risks across markets. It total comprehensive income stood at N147.0 billion in 2021, a decline of 8.2 per cent  relative to 2020 at N160.1 billion; inclusive of forex gains of (N45.8 billion in 2021 and N51.2 billion in 2020). Total operating income – Core income (exclusive of FX gains) stood at N100.8 billion in 2021 – down eight per cent compared to 109.6 billion in 2020, indicating positive returns across the three funds. The Managing Director/CEO, Uche Orji, said last year marked the end of another solid fiscal year at NSIA. In the period, the Authority delivered a strong performance. While the results are in line with the Authority’s expectations, strong performance of our developed market investments were offset by challenges in our emerging market asset allocation, particularly in China equities, which saw significant underperformance by technology company stocks. “Looking ahead to 2022 and beyond, we believe inflationary pressures will persist for much of this year, affecting the performance of all asset classes. We remain committed to strengthening the Authority’s performance by strengthening our risk management teams. In addition to expanding our direct investment footprint in innovation and technology in Nigeria, we have also designated ESG as an investment focus area. We will remain unrelenting in our quest to deliver the Authority’s clear 3-fold mandate. I am confident that the actions we are taking will create value for all our stakeholders in the medium to long term,” he said.   Fed Govt okays tax reliefs, other incentives for tech…     GDP’s 3.11% Q1 growth driven by trade, telecoms     Sylva: synergy in midstream, downstream to boost domestic…   The NSIA reached major milestones across domestic infrastructure projects specifically in motorways, agriculture, healthcare, technology, and gas industrialisation, among others. The Presidential Fertiliser Infrastructure is one of the Authority’s most successful intervention programmes. As of year-end 2021, 51 blending plans have been included in the programme starting from 11 in 2017. The operating entity of the programme NAIC-NPK (now PFI-NPK) has been divested to the Ministry of Finance Incorporated (MOFI) and is being managed by the Authority as a third-party asset.  The restructured entity also turned a profit for the first time, which is remarkable for what has been perennially a subsidised programme. NSIA expects to commission Panda Agric in mid-to-late 2022. Panda Agric is an investee company under the NSIA-UFF US$200million Agriculture Fund set up in 2016. Panda farm is engaged in the two-phase development of an animal feed processing business with backward integration through the farming of maize and soybean on about 3,500Ha of land in Nasarawa State (Project Panda). Approximately 96 per cent (720ha) of the targeted 750ha of center pivot irrigation coverage has been achieved. In line with the Fund’s objective, it  invested in a hyperscale cloud data company – Kasi Cloud Limited. Kasi Cloud is the next-generation interconnection and data center platform for hyperscale and enterprise cloud solutions. The company focuses on enabling cloud and digital transformation in Africa starting in Lagos, Nigeria. Kasi has commenced the construction of a Tier IV data centre worth US$250 million in Lagos. Under its gas industrialisation initiative, the Authority made significant progress in conceptualizing the development of the Ammonia and Di-Ammonium Phosphate production plants in partnership with OCP. We have secured a site for the plant and studies are on-going including the early stages of selecting an EPC company. NSIA believes 2022 will be the most challenging investment environment in the last 15 years as a combined effect of Inflation, Russia-Ukraine and COVID-19 related supply chain challenges combine to create a tough environment for most asset classes.