In France, Lyon and Nantes meet in the penultimate weekend of the 2021-22 Ligue 1 season at the Groupama Stadium tonight. Les Gones suffered a humbling 3-2 defeat at the hands of relegation-threatened Metz in their most recent game, while the visitors got the better of Rennes 2-1 in midweek. Any hangover from their successful Coupe de France exploits quickly ceased to exist for Nantes who are only looking upwards, with the cup holders denting their Derby Breton rivals’ Champions League hopes by getting the better of Rennes 2-1 in midweek. A late push for the top six will not materialise for Kombouare’s men – whose Coupe de France win has seen them book a place in the Europa League – but the visitors can still be buoyed by their ninth-placed standing in the table, and they will move two points clear of Lyon should they leapfrog them with victory on tonight. Moses Simon is expected to return to the Yellow and Green side as he was an unused substitute in their win over Rennes. The Nigerian had a fantastic game in their Coupe de France final win over Nice last weekend and was among the top stars excused for Nantes’ midweek tie. Simon will be eyeing his 30th league game of the season where he has scored six goals and had eight assists.   All Hail Haaland! Huge expectations as Norwegian goal…     Protests in Imo communities as robbers, kidnappers take over…     #JusticeForDeborah: More outrage over murder of female…   In England, Everton will revive  their EPL survival  against Brentford  at Goodison Park tomorrow’s afternoon. The Toffees settled  a goalless with Watford in midweek, while the Bees most recently eased past Southampton 3-0. The Toffees’ revival has left them 16th in the rankings and two points clear of Burnley and Leeds United – still boasting a game in hand over the latter – so their safety could be confirmed with victory over Brentford and if Leeds fail to overcome Brighton & Hove Albion. Everton owe part of their transformation to Super Eagles attacking midfielder, Alex Iwobi who has reinvented his game under Frank Lampard. He has started 19 games of the 25 EPL matches he has featured this season with two goals and two assists. Without injured Super Eagles midfielder, Frank Onyeka Brentford Successfully proved that the 3-0 defeat at the hands of Manchester United was nothing more than a minor blip, after the Bees assured themselves of a second successive season of Premier League football by triumphing against Southampton by the same scoreline last weekend. In Holland, Feyenoord are certain of a third-place  finish as they sit seven points behind second and six points above Sunday’s visitors FC Twente, who occupy fourth spot.