Organisers of the Okpekpe international 10km road race said there will be in-competition doping tests this Saturday during the eighth edition of the World Athletics Elite Label race in Okpekpe near Auchi. Race Director, Zack Amodu revealed that provisions have not only been made for a full doping control for the event but also full medical services will be available at the venue. ”In line with World Athletics anti-doping rules, in-competition tests will be conducted for selected athletes during the race,” Amodu said “This will be done to preserve the integrity of performances achieved at the event which is a World Athletics Elite Label race.” Amodu further revealed that a minimum of eight athletes will be subjected to the tests that will be conducted in conformity with the provisions of the international standard for testing and investigations, adding four men and four women will undergo the tests including four with EPO analysis.   Eagles Watch: Osimhen finishes season with best U-23 gong     Heavy downpour stops Zenith Bank swimming gala     GOtv Boxing Night 25: Emirates fires Adama warning   He said: “The testing kits needed for effective anti-doping have arrived; we have a doping station built in Okpekpe for the race. Only the elite athletes will however undergo the tests. Athletes who are required to take prohibited substances or methods written in the Prohibited List to treat an illness must apply for TUE (Therapeutic Use Exemptions).” He assured full medical services before, during and after the race since the organisers have fully complied with World Athletics Competition Medical Guidelines in the organisation of the medical services provided to participants since the inaugural edition of the race, adding ‘ this year’s event will not be different’. The Okpekpe international 10km road race is the first in Nigeria to have its race course measured by a World Athletics certified course measurer and the first in West Africa to be granted a label status. It is organised by Pamodzi Sports Marketing, leader in sports marketing, sponsorship, hospitality and rights acquisition business with operations in Nigeria.