There is an urgent need for greater awareness to stem the scourge of large bowel and rectal cancer among Nigerians. This admonition was contained in a lecture delivered by Bashir Akande, a retired professor of surgery, College of Medicine, University of Lagos, during the annual lecture and bursary awards ceremony of Oluyole Club, Lagos. Rectal cancer is a disease in which malignant or cancer cells form in the tissues of the rectum. While health history affects the risk of developing rectal cancer, signs of rectal cancer include a change in bowel habits or blood in the stool, he said. Cancer of the large bowel is said to be the commonest cancer of the digestive system all over the world. Up till about three decades ago, Prof Akande said, it was thought to be less prevalent in Africa and Nigeria in particular. However, reports within the last two decades have indicated a more than 80 per cent rise in its incidence. What could have been responsible for the low incidence from the African countries? According to the retired professor of surgery, who was also a former President of Oluyole Club, it was thought that the consumption of vegetable fibres in African dietary items protects Africans from developing bowel cancer; unlike Caucasians who consumed predominantly low residue and fatty diet with longer intestinal transit times. Since the bulky and fibre rich African diet led to shorter transit times, the dietary toxins had little time to produce changes that led to damage to intestinal mucosa and cancer. “What must not be forgotten, however, is the scarcity of personnel, technology and medical centres where adequate and prompt diagnosis of bowel cancer can be made. Even now that more medical personnel are available in Africa, annual incidence of colorectal cancer is still higher in advanced countries than in Africa. Earlier studies from many parts of Africa including Nigeria had shown a prohibitive mortality rate mainly due to delay in making accurate diagnosis due to late presentation by patients and lack of sophisticated equipment. “Even now, there is still a lack of awareness of regular screening exercise by the general population in Africa most of whom can hardly afford the cost of the exercise. In most European countries, screening for bowel cancer begins from about the age of 50 years or earlier in some families with history of bowel cancer. Nigerian patients who are victims of colorectal cancer are on the average about 10 years younger than their Caucasian counterparts. Both male and female are affected almost equally but there is a preponderance of rectal tumour amongst the females. The ages affected range from about 17-19 years to 76-95 years in different reports from Nigeria and some African countries,” he said.   Duchess Hospital unveils affordable world-class healthcare…     WASCO gets new name     LASUTH opens new dialysis unit   The disease, he stressed, can be inherited as an autosomal dominant gene and it runs from parent to offspring and it can affect a few siblings. When this happens, the large bowel in such families starts to develop multiple polyps most of the time before the age of 10 years, between 10 and teenage years; the polyps have multiplied and almost the whole of the colon and rectum are full of polyps of different sizes. By the age of 35 years or even earlier, some of these polyps have become cancer. These polyps are outgrowths from the inner lining (Mucosa) of the bowel wall. “It has been well established that Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAID) can slow down the speed of the development of these polyps but they do not eradicate them. The only remedy for the affected individual is complete surgical removal of the colon (total colectomy) and part of the Rectum affected.” As for symptoms, he explained that patients may complain of passing blood (either bright red or very dark) in the stool, general weakness, a change in bowel habits, diarrhoea, constipation, feeling that the bowel does not empty completely, stools that are narrower or have a different shape than usual, general abdominal discomfort (frequent gas pains, bloating, fullness, or cramps), change in appetite, weight loss for no known reason and feeling very tired. “A few complain of lack of appetite. Few will only complain when they can feel a swelling in their abdomen and some may come when involvement of the liver has given rise to jaundice. Very few    complain of abdominal pain. Some may not have any symptoms at all, but are picked up during routine investigation for something else.” Management of the disease, the professor of medicine pointed out, should be decided after a concrete diagnosis, accompanied by far-reaching findings and recommendations. Types of treatment for patients with rectal cancer surgery include radiation therapy, chemotherapy, active surveillance, targeted therapy, and immunotherapy. In his welcome address, the president of Oluyole Club, Alhaji Rasaki Oladejo, said besides having annual lectures, the 54-year-old non-political club has contributed immensely to the socio-economic development of Ibadan, serving as a non-governmental organisation think-tank in matters relating to the long-term socio-economic and cultural interests of Ibadanland. Another highpoint of the occasion was the presentation of an N75,000 cheque each to 10 university undergraduates to ease their financial burden.