This is certainly the season of strikes. First, it was the Academic Staff Union of Universities who locked horns with Federal Government over unmet demands. Recently, Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) entered the fray. Nevertheless, students in polytechnics across the country want all issues resolve before the union embarks on an indefinite strike. CALEB IJIOMA (AAP) reports. These are sad times for students who attend public universities or polytechnics in the country. There seems to be no end to the industrial action embarked upon by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). As if that is not enough, polytechnic lecturers under the aegis of the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP), also downed tools over the inability of the Federal Government to accede to their demands. Prior to that, the union gave a month ultimatum to Federal Government at its National Executive Council meeting in Yola, Adamawa State, held in March 2022, to meet its demands or face the closure of all polytechnics. The ultimatum expired on 4th May,2022. Hence,they embarked on a 2-week warning strike which started May 16. ASUP National president, Anderson Ezeibe, in an interview with CAMPUS LIFE said their demands were clear. He noted that embarking on an industrial action was legitimate and the union had no choice since the Federal Government failed to respect their agreement. Ezeibe said the union suspended its 61-day strike in 2021 following the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding with the Federal Government. ” It is for the government to meet the demands, the demands are quite straightforward, and we have also given more than enough time. In 2021, after 61 days, we suspended our strike for 3 months, the 3-month period of suspension expired on the 12th of September last year. Between September and now, we have been patient enough,” he said. The union is demanding the release of the N15bn revitalisation fund to address the decay in infrastructure in the sector, payment of outstanding arrears of minimum wage, the release of reviewed normative instruments for institutions, management, and accreditation, the appointment of rectors, and addressing the breach of the provisions of the Federal Polytechnic Act as amended in 2019. CAMPUS LIFE gathered that Yaba College of Technology(YABATECH), Lagos, Isa Mustapha Agwei Polytechnic, Lafia, Federal Polytechnic Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti, have joined the 2-week warning strike. Students are however worried about the grave effect this strike would have on their studies. Therefore, they are calling the Federal Government to fulfill its agreement with the union to avert an indefinite industrial action.   Students seek end to strike Precious Okafor, a student at Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY), Ojere, Ogun State, appealed to the Federal Government to grant ASUP demands and halt an indefinite strike that would delay students. “ With the ASUP strike, our academic journey is being slowed down. Our examination is close. Education should be treated as a priority and not an option. The Federal Government should do something about their request. It is not easy teaching students for months without getting paid, where does the government expect them to get money to feed ? I appeal to our leaders to grant ASUP’s request,” she said. Omokehinde Yusuf of Federal Polytechnic Ilaro (FPI),Ogun State, said the strike was a setback for students. He urged the Federal Government to do the needful by meeting the union’s demands. His words: “It is a setback for students. I am begging the Federal Government to please answer ASUP and do the needful.” Abdullahi Babatunde, a student at the Oyo State College of Agriculture and Technology, (OYSCATECH), Igbo Ora,Oyo State, said the strike has increase the hardship of polytechnic students because a lot has been spent on hostel rents. It is, however,not refundable. “In a period like this when the economy of the country is nothing to write home about, the strike has increased the hardship of polytechnic students as a lot has been spent on hostel rents. Such fees are not refundable. If the union embarks on an indefinite strike, as the election draws closer, polytechnic students will become a tool in the hands of callous and selfless politicians. “This can lead to loss of lives of our colleagues. The condition of our lecture rooms and learning environment will worsen before the end of the strike,it will negatively impact academic activities. “ The strike will make students idle and even encourage some social vices in the community. Now, students who source money from school through some petty small business would suffer. “Hence, leaders should meet the demands of the union and prevent an indefinite strike,” he said. Teniola Amoo, a Federal Polytechnic Ado Ekiti student, said incessant strike by lecturers is discouraging students from obtaining a higher institution degree in Nigeria. “Why is it so hard for them to settle ASUP? At this rate, lecturers are always going on strike, most students won’t even want to go to school anymore in Nigeria. This is terrible,they should consider our future and reach a compromise,” she said.   Deborah Samuel: Students seek justice for slain colleague     ‘Why students prefer studying abroad’     Varsity plans big for Nigerian students   Olamiju Olatomiwa of Abraham Adesanya Polytechnic(AAP) berated certain individuals for obtaining the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential form and turning a blind eye to the challenges rocking the education sector. “ ASUP strike, if it extends beyond the initial two weeks, will lead to a total lockdown of major tertiary institutions in the country and yet each day we hear someone getting nomination form to contest for president. They can pay N100 million for just a form in APC but cannot solve lingering educational crisis. Now we have to contend with unnecessary delay. It seems the education of students is of less concern to the Federal Government. “They should take the educational system so seriously as they would to the forthcoming elections. The Federal Government should seat with the leadership of ASUP and discuss their needs and how to address the situation,” he said. Adeleke Opeyemi, a student at Oke Ogun Polytechnic Saki, Oyo State, said students who wish to undergo their National Youth Service Corps Programme would be delayed further. “My school calendar has already been affected by COVID-19 which has already deprived me of NYSC. Now, if the strike is prolonged, my plan will be affected again and most students will also be affected. Three of my friends will clock 30 soon, and our prayer is that we should have finished before they clock 30 so they can go for service. Any prolonged would cut short our dreams,” he said. Abidemi Joseph, a student at Gateway Polytechnic, urged the Federal Government to listen to the demands of ASUP to avoid toying with future of students. “The government should please listen to ASUP. I can’t afford to stay at home because of any indefinite strike.This will affect students and the education sector in general,” she said.   Student leaders urge Fed Govt to accede to ASUP’s demands President,National Association of Polytechnic Students ( NAPS ), Asiegbu Kingsley, urged the Federal Government to look into incessant industrial actions by lecturers and provide a solution. He appealed to the government to listen to the demands of ASUP or face a peaceful demonstration by students in Abuja. “ We humbly appeal to the Federal Government to listen to the demands of the union. There have been incessant industrial actions across the country, hence, that looks like the norm in the education system. Attention to this plea will help salvage our future. We have neither seen nor heard a good father promising his children bread and giving them stones. We may not hesitate to go on a shutdown Abuja peaceful demonstration,” he said. Also corroborating the president’s statement, the senate president of the association, Adeniji Temitope, said students would not allow any political gathering if lecturers’ demands are not met. “If ASUP embarked on another strike action now it will have negative effects on Students, delay in graduation, unbalanced academic calendar among others. We want the Federal Government to desist from this nonchalant attitude towards our lecturers because we are not going to allow any golitical gathering or whatsoever to go on until our lecturers are attended to,” he said. In addition, the Oyo State College of Agriculture and Technology Igboora (OYSCATECH), student union president, Oladokun Babatunde pleaded with polytechnic lecturers to be considerate in their actions and consider thousands of Nigerian students. ” The Federal Government should look into this very fast before things get out of hands as ASUP are already planning to go on an indefinite strike, which is going to put an end to the academic calendar. They should address all lingering issues.” “I also plead with the management of each institution, lecturers and the Federal Government to consider thousands of polytechnic students as our education is our pride,” he said.   Hope on the horizon, Fed Govt pays minimum wage arrears ASUP President, Anderson Ezeibe in a chat with CAMPUS LIFE noted that the Federal Government, last Wednesday commenced the payment of lecturers’ minimum wage arrears, which is a part of the union demands. While speaking on the union’s industrial action and if all demands would be met before the strike can be called off, he said: “Not necessarily, the strike is a two- week warning strike, it is like a protest.” He, however, noted that members of the public will be briefed about the union’s next line of action after a week. “We are going to brief members of the media, the two weeks warning strike will end on Sunday. This coming Sunday. It is just a week old now. We are going to brief members of the public as time goes on,” he said.