On May 19, while receiving Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant Mohammed HayatuDeen in Abeokuta, Ogun State, ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo, as is his custom, waxed profound about Nigeria’s existential struggles. Ignoring his own failings and the controversies that swirled around his politics and ethics as president, he drew a strong connection between leadership deficiencies and Nigeria’s instability and crises. And responding to his visitor’s opening remarks, Chief Obasanjo adumbrated four panaceas he believed were indispensable to the resolution of the country’s crises. Quoting him extensively, he had said: “I will say four things, of which I was reminded this morning. One is knowledge. If Nigeria is not at the table, maybe the knowledge that we should have of ourselves, of our situation, of our continent, and, indeed, of the world is not that adequate. If that knowledge is adequate, we will do what is right, when it is right and how it is right. “The second is vision. What is the vision that we have? And if you have no vision, you may have eyes, but you are blind. And I believe that is part of our situation. “The third is passion. And when you said you are involved in this with a passion, and I was telling some people this morning that passion means madness; that you are mad about Nigeria. I am and I have no apologies for that; because I have no other country I can call my own and I have no other country I can go to and say, yes, I have come to live here. Passion means being mad about Nigeria, having a touch of madness and I look at you (Hayatu-Deen) and say, yes, you are mad about Nigeria, too. “Fourth one is innovation. We cannot be doing the same thing that we have done in the past that did not pay us and continue to repeat it and expect any change. We have to move out of it, we have to innovate, we have to re-strategise. And you talk about security and people ask me about it and I say I know that we can put all insecurity in Nigeria behind us within a space of two years. That we have not done that or that we are still in the situation we are is a choice that has been made by our leaders, not the way God wants us to be.” As galling as his self-righteousness is, Chief Obasanjo is right. In general, his analysis of the Nigerian condition is not exaggerated, nor even misdirected. His confident assertions give the impression that should he have the chance to lead Nigeria again, he would resolve all these knotty issues in two years. He may be right that the inability to resolve these issues is the choice of Nigeria’s leaders, but given his own antecedents, for example his 1999 Inauguration Day promise to resolve the power conundrum in a jiffy, his two-year deadline may be characteristically but unduly optimistic. Throughout his eight years in office, Chief Obasanjo was neither scientific in his approach to governance nor, despite his vaunted claims to being passionate about Nigeria, altruistic. Given the chance again, he would try of course, and his methods would be seen to be detribalised and nationalistic, far better than the current administration’s insular approach, but nothing in his methods or ‘madness’ bears out his confidence that he would succeed where others have failed. And that leads to the controversial point which Chief Obasanjo asserted in his interaction with the visiting presidential contender. Mr HayatuDeen of course has no hope of clinching the ticket, not even by a long shot, but there is no doubt about his bona fides or intellect, or even of his noble intentions for Nigeria. Chief Obasanjo spoke of the ideal leader needing to possess a ‘touch of madness’ as a prerequisite for successful leadership. He didn’t misspeak of course; no, he usually never does, not even when he is far off the mark. But he also never accepts blame for anything, including those things that he deliberately and unethically botched, such as the manner he raised funds to build his presidential library where he is today ensconced in sybaritic lavishness and medieval contentment.   How 31 free food seekers die in Rivers church stampede     2023: Protests trail APC guber primaries as suspended priest…     Winners emerge in APC House of Reps primaries amidst upsets   While adumbrating the problems Nigeria is immersed in, Chief Obasanjo spoke about the place of knowledge in finding a resolution. Here, knowledge must naturally presuppose not only scientific reasoning but also historical experience, yes, the same history he scoffed at during his first term in office. It is not clear, should this presupposition be right, that any touch of madness would be appropriate. What madness would resolve the country’s power supply conundrum when other lesser endowed nations and developed economies had resolved this same problem with a touch of science, methodicalness and appropriate investments? What touch of madness is required for any nation under siege by criminals and non-state actors, when devolved law enforcement and truly national security forces properly kitted and remunerated would be more than sufficient? Where was any touch of madness when the founding fathers of the United States crafted their timeless constitution, which like many other great constitutions, was based on the great Bill of Rights derived from the Magna Carta of 1215. Perhaps a touch of madness would be needed to foment a revolution against colonial oppression, but solving existential problems like power crisis, economic woes, insurgency, and banditry, etc. should require, not madness, but methods. How many touches of madness would be required in a country should the same problems keep recurring? Was it touch of madness that helped China leap to a first world beginning from 1978-79? The touch of madness Chief Obasanjo referred to is a hangover of military methods, a needless and foolish recourse to extralegal measures to tackle often routine but sometimes complex problems, and counterproductive measures involving the abrogation of the rule of law. Where have such serial constitutional malfeasances, to which the people have sadly become acculturated, got Nigeria? Fortunately, it was not Mr HayatuDeen who spoke about a touch of madness; he spoke only of his passion for Nigeria. The madness rhetoric came from Chief Obasanjo who, as always, is convinced, that his analysis is irrefutable. Well, regardless of what touches he thinks are appropriate for Nigeria, it will barely make a dent on the fundamentals of retooling the country. For eight years, he had the opportunity to use whatever touches caught his fancy; he flunked it. His lack of vision and discipline made him a part of the problem. His misrule and undemocratic practices – his so-called touch of madness – produced the ailing Umaru Yar’Adua as president; and that in turn led to the irresolute Goodluck Jonathan; which also out of popular revulsion and anger produced Muhammadu Buhari. Periodic madness got Nigeria only into a cul de sac; it is time to get a bold thinker, not a mad man, no matter how fleeting, into office.  Despite his gleeful claims to parsimoniousness, there is nothing particularly remarkable about the style and politics of former Anambra State two-term governor and presidential aspirant, Peter Obi. His defection to the PDP after leaving office as governor was opportunistic, and was aimed at having a shot at the presidency in the years ahead. He deemed that year had come when he ran on the Abubakar Atiku ticket to contest the 2019 presidential election. This year, he had hoped to run for the presidency but seemed to have been thwarted by what he described as a gang-up against him in the PDP. Mr Obi merely typifies aspirants whose ambitions will be thwarted by the illiberal atmosphere suffusing Nigerian democracy. The politicians are themselves not principled, as Mr Obi is showing, and will hop, step and jump to as many parties as their fancies and political expediencies can carry them. The public must be cautious in being carried away by the political umbrage the aspirants take. True Mr Obi will be frugal should he mount the throne, but even as Anambra governor, there was little remarkable about his government. Governance is after all not about just telling inspiring and humorous stories of frugality, especially when every other thing about the aspirant or candidate is jaded and uninspiring.