Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has declared he is the most experienced to succeed President Muhammad Buhari in 2023 among aspirants jostling for the plum position. Osinbajo stated that he has garnered enough experience, which puts him in good stead to consolidate on the giant strides and outstanding achievements of the current administration. The Vice President spoke at the palace of Ewi of Ado-Ekiti, Oba Rufus Adejugbe in Ado-Ekiti on Thursday in furtherance of his consultation with stakeholders ahead of the primaries. He noted his undertakings as the vice president and acting president on different occasions have exposed him to the peculiarities and opportunities in the country, adding he is determined to build on this and place Nigeria on higher pedestal. He added that working under Buhari whom he described as a honest and transparent leader was one of the things that has adequately prepared him for bigger task in leading the country. “I want to say that my aspiration to be president of the country is one that is informed by first, the fact that God has given me the opportunity to offer myself for this country for the past seven years. For these years, I have served as vice president and acting president.   Mob kills female student over alleged blasphemy in Sokoto…     Nigeria withdraws from int’l basketball competitions     NUC presents provisional licences to 12 new private…   “I have also worked under a very open and transparent President who has given me every opportunities to understand some of the issues and challenges that affect a country of a size and diversity like Nigeria. ” So I have all these opportunities and I most say that having had those opportunities and when the time for people to put themselves forward to run as president, I believe it will be irresponsible of me after seven years, not join the race. ” So, among the aspirants I am the most with the experience and knowledge at the federal level to do this job and we will hit the ground running from day one, God willing. “The time has come for me to put myself for the task ahead and I must add that my sole objective is to serve this country and the people, that is the reason why I am here in Ekiti to consult with the stakeholders and of course the party delegates.” Oba Adejugbe eulogised the vice president for his contributions to the development of the country in the last seven years, saying that he has the needed qualities to be president. The first class traditional monarch who prayed for him on his aspiration, said: “The next president should remember the traditional institutions for critical roles in nation building rather than advisory or visitations during elections every four years.”