Those who run our football are either too forgetful (forgive me please) or they intentionally cast an indulgent eye to imminent pitfalls ahead, only to say when such problems arise ”but I warned earlier, you thought you knew it all.” This is the premise of all issues not only in football but all the sports federations. And the question to the federations is to plead with the sports minister to raise a memo to President Muhammadu Buhari to approve a sports budget which would ensure that all requests are accommodated on a four-yearly schedule or a two-year or even one year to cater for all their needs. The question would be how do other countries run their sports without such hitches? In other polities, the sports industry is big business. It is a money-spinner. It is used to empower the people. It engages the youth and takes them off societal vices. Sports create platforms for people to recreate. Being engaged in sporting events improves the health and living standards of citizens. Government should ensure that the accounts of receiving federations are audited and those found to have light fingers made to face the wrath of the law – including serving jail terms to serve as a deterrent to others. It is quite shameful for Nigeria’s sports authorities to be locked in near fisticuffs with the government over funds for sports which are always scheduled four-year, two-year, or one year at the least by international sporting associations. No country runs its sports on the yearly fiscal budget because of its clumsiness. Sports competitions are run on a calendar system which gives participating countries to prepare adequately for periods of one to four years. Besides, there are other tournaments which serve as qualifiers for the main events across the globe which make it imperative that funding must be handy, not dependent on any form of bureaucracy. The countries that excel in sporting events have systems which guarantee enough funds for the sportsmen and sportswomen to compete with the best such as tax rebates on sport friendly firms, lotteries, and businesses owned by wealthy nationals who know what is in such a sponsorship that benefits them by the sitting government. Such details on taxes are spelt out to businesses and wealthy nationals after agreements have been reached. These cast in stone policies are binding to all the parties to such an extent that breaches are adequately addressed to allow either of the parties to seek redress in courts. The beauty of this organised method of funding is that it gives all the concerned sponsors enough time to schedule their commitments to their boards in order to provide for them in the yearly budgets for the duration of the contractual agreements with reliant government parastatals for the exercise. Sports efficient governments hold an annual parley with the president where all stakeholders in the industry and moguls and owners of businesses dine or chat with the president who also uses such forum to explain his government policies clearly stating what everyone gets in order to make it work. Athletes, coaches and officials who distinguished themselves are rewarded and given commemorative medals which they treasure for years to come. In the past, Nigeria had special panels headed by distinguished Nigerians such as the late Bashorun MKO Abiola across all fields of human endeavour who used their clouts to rally everyone to identify with the country’s desire to excel in major international competitions. This strategy yielded high dividends which were used to galvanise our athletes to win laurels for us. Our sports ambassadors were sent to countries with proficiency in the particular sports as sending our sprint athletes to train for the Olympics. A sports budget would grow in leaps and bounds only if those who run the place are transparent and should be ready to submit their accounts to scrutiny. A blueprint is sacrosanct for sports to thrive and it must be anchored on the dire need to resuscitate moribund grassroots competitions that engaged youths, taking them away from the vices of the society. The emergence of a sports policy endorsed by the government will create jobs, such that this industry could in the next 10 years become the highest employer of labour.   Campaigns, ideas and 2023     Herbalist impregnates female customer, fights dirty with…     Tambuwal: I’m the most qualified presidential aspirant in…   The policy should challenge local government chairmen to build at least four mini-sports centres that would serve as playgrounds for their constituents in the absence of such structures in the schools in the 774 local government areas. Multiply four mandatory mini-sports centres by 774 local governments, what you get (3,096 mini-sports centres) would set the platform for the industry to grow. Blue-chip companies will then leverage their products and services on this enterprise since their target audience are the masses who will throng the centres to watch competitions. The spiral effect of blue-chip firms identifying with this new initiative is that the local government areas could recoup their investments because they could offer to name these facilities after the firms alongside other marketing windows that the initiatives offer, such as kitting and moulding the career paths of athletes discovered to stardom. Wealthy indigenes will queue up to patronise sports, recruiting the locals as coaches, athletes, groundsmen, drivers, cleaners, security personnel, doctors and other institutional staff in their outfits. If each of the 774 local governments employs 50 people for each of the mandatory four mini-sports centres in the proposed pilot scheme, the employment rate in the hinterlands will be reduced. It is true that there is a global recession. But the spiral effect of rewarding our athletes is unquantifiable when they move from being amateurs to professionals. A handsome reward in cash and kind will reinvigorate the desire of most sceptical parents to allow their kids to earn a living as sportsmen and women. Indeed, athletes who win laurels for Nigeria are children of the hewers of woods and drawers of water. In fact, every time these kids sneak out to do sports, they return home to be flogged and at other times denied their meals to serve as a deterrent to other kids who would want to toe their path. Some of these parents beat their children because they want them to be educated. They always point at their relations and neighbours whose kids are educated and doing very well in the society. They want to produce as many graduates as they can afford to send to school, not sportsmen and women whose life span in the industry is between one year and 10, barring any injuries. For some other parents, it’s boundless joy if their kids sneak out for games. It means fewer people to cater for when the meals are ready. Of course, these lads are not bothered. Their target is to get recognition from clubs or national teams’ scouts, which they know will open a new vista in their lives. Once they gain national prominence, parents who hitherto whipped the boys at dusk after training begin to encourage them to reach the heights set by others. Since these kids come from poor backgrounds, they embrace the game with awful clothing and funny kits. It is always a laughable sight watching these kids in the hinterlands tying their legs with long stockings, for those who cannot afford to buy boots. Those who wear boots are the skilful ones whose parents scavenged to buy them. What stands out here is that the road to the national teams is tortuous, making it imperative for the willing parents to expect returns on their investments. Sports is a form of business in other climes. Why not in Nigeria? You tell me.