Operatives of the Bauchi State Police Command have arrested five cybercrime ‘Yahoo Yahoo’ Suspects undergoing training in Bauchi. A statement signed by the Police Public Relations Officer of the Command,  SP Mohammed Ahmed Wakil, stated that its successful operation led to the arrest of one  Emmanuel Saleh nicknamed Wizblaq (22 yrs old ‘m’) of Rafin-Zurfi, Bauchi, an alleged owner of the academy center and four others. According to Wakil, the operatives of the State Intelligence Bureau (SIB), Bauchi Command acted on a verified intelligence on May 20, 2022, when it burst into an apartment located at Kirfi Road, GRA, Bauchi, where the training center was established for the training of youths who want to venture into internet crime. He mentioned the four other suspects arrested in the exotic apartment as Matthias Akronyi alias Mad Kid, 20 years ‘m’ of Block 24, 82 Division’s Army Barracks, Enugu; Patience Nuhu 21years (female) of  Rafin-Zurfi, Bauchi.   Police kill bandit, nab six others, recover 210 rustled cows…     Abuja residents protest exorbitant AEDC bills     Gombe cautions against indiscriminate dumping of refuse on…   Others are Bulus Haruna, 18 years old ‘m’ of Rafin-Zurfi, Bauchi, and Kingsley Simon* 19 years old ‘m’ of Rafin-Zurfi, Bauchi. He said the crime Items recovered from the residential apartment turned training center as exhibits include; four laptops,  one television set, four sound systems, a brand new power generator, seven plastic chairs, one office chair,  a musical keyboard and a fridge. “Findings revealed that the principal suspect, Emmanuel Saleh and members of the syndicate targeted foreign women under a proxy server, hacked by spoofing the victim’s email account/website, which makes it possible to carry out variations in the legitimate email of the victims to fool the victim and gain access to the accounts, calendar, and data. During the investigation, the suspects confessed to the crime” “The Commissioner of Police, Umar Mamman Sanda, has directed that the suspects be charged to court as soon as the investigation is concluded” the statement partly reads.