All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain in Gombe State Dahiru Kera yesterday warned Governor Inuwa Yahaya against plunging the state into debt. He said the move to obtain loans by the administration smacked of misplaced priority and insensitivity to challenges confronting people. Kera, House of Assembly aspirant in Nafada South, said it is wrong for the leaders to incure debts that would constitute a burden. He said the mood in the state does not accommodate controversial loans and unwise spending. Kera told reporters that the Assembly should allow their decisions to reflect the interest and yearnings of the people. A group, ‘Gombe Good Leadership Association (GGLA),’ in a statement by Mohammed Abdullahi, raised an alarm over increasing debt.   Ogun monarch to INEC: We need more polling units     My plan for Abia, by Igbokwe     2023: The odd against Osinbajo   It expressed worry that the governor ignored calls to avoid accumulated debts, and has gone ahead to seek more loans running into billions. The group, in the statement titled: The Gombe State Borrowing Governor Is At It Again, lamented that “the governor has plunged Gombe State into a crippling debts. Nothing is more reckless than borrowing money to repay a debt or cope with effect of existing debts.” It said: “We recently made a statement concerning the spate of reckless borrowing by the Muhammadu Inuwa Yaya-led administration of Gombe State. Just when we thought we had seen it all from the governor, we saw a copy of the letter the governor sent to the Speaker … “In the letter, the governor is requesting the resolution of the Gombe State House of Assembly allowing him to access the Federal Government’s Bridging Finance Facility of N18, 746, 059, 992.57.” “There is no gainsaying that the debt service to the overall revenue of Gombe State is excessive and inimical to the economic and developmental aspirations of the state. From the governor’s showing, the revenue cannot even take care of the recurrent and debt servicing portfolio of the state. “The Federal Government has been indulging governors and pressuring the Central Bank to lend money to governors under all sorts of  projects and schemes. We call on the Central Bank to resist any temptation to further advance any loan to the governor of Gombe State.