Six persons arrested over last week’s mob lynching and burning of sound engineer, David Imoh, have been paraded by the Lagos Police Command. The suspects, including the bike rider, Dahiru Ayuba, a woman, Susan Moses, other motorcyclists, Christopher Dauda, Joseph Tella, and Sunday Azi as well as an alleged mastermind Chigozie Anthony, were paraded with seven other suspects arrested in the last one month for armed robbery, cultism, unlawful possession of firearms offences Parading the suspects at the Command headquarters on Friday, Commissioner of Police (CP) Abiodun Alabi said the Command recovered 15 locally made pistols, 68 live cartridges, four handsets, an axe, charms, two cutlasses, a saw, one pounding pistol, a female bag and one tortoise within the period under review. The Nation had reported how Imoh was violently attacked at Beer Barn, Admiralty Way, Lekki Phase 1, on May 12 by a mob of motorcyclists over N100 disagreement. The deceased was said to have been inside the lounge setting up for their show when he was called by his friends who had argument with the rider. It was gathered that the passengers had given the rider N1,000 to give them N400 change but he gave them N300 instead. The duo were said to have collected the N1,000 and given the rider N500 since he didn’t have N100 to complete their change but he attacked one of them and tore his clothes. Angered by his reaction, they were said to have punched the rider which resulted in a fight that attracted other motorcyclists and passerby. In no time, a mob gathered and descended on the two passengers as well as Imoh who had come out to broker peace. It was gathered that Imoh succeeded in escaping and hid himself at a place but a woman who was passing by saw him and told the mob his whereabouts where they went after him and eventually killed him. Briefing reporters on Imoh’s, the police boss said Dahiru had a quarrel at Studio 24 with his passengers identified as Frank Olatunji and Philip Balogun over bike fare around 6:30am on May 12. In the heat of the argument, Alabi said Olatunji and Balogun invited Imoh to mediate only for the mob to violently attack, kill and set him ablaze. The CP said the suspects would be charged to court. Abiodun also confirmed the arrest of 35 suspects and seizure of 135 motorcycles at Ojo following Thursday’s protest that grounded vehicular movement along the Badagry Expressway.   We are after foreigners operating Okada in Lagos — CP     Presidential primary: Plateau Gov, APC delegates endorse…     JUST IN: Protest in Abuja over council chairmen tenure…   He said the police also arrested three men over alleged unlawful possession of firearms. “On  April 23, a member of the public,  who resides in Ibeju Lekki, Lagos went to receive food items sent to him by his mother from Cross River State. “The driver through whom the food stuffs were to be delivered, mistakenly gave him a sack that was meant to be delivered to someone else. When he opened the sack, he discovered seven locally made pistols. “He rushed to the nearest police division and handed over the arms. Upon receipt of the case, detectives embarked on diligent investigation that led to the arrest of the driver, who dispatched the sack from Calabar to Lagos,” he said. The police boss said that during interrogation, he confessed that he had sold many guns to his customers in Lagos and later led operatives to arrest two of his buyers. “One locally made shot gun bought from the driver was recovered. Investigation is still ongoing to apprehend other fleeing suspects in order to recover more of the guns he had sold to people in Lagos,” Alabi said. He said detectives also arrested four suspects aged 28, 19, 15 and 25 over alleged illegal possession of firearms. The suspects, he said, were arrested on May 10, around 9:15am, at their hideout in Ojo. “Seven locally made pistols, 68 live cartridges, cutlasses, axe, charms, four mobile phones, tortoise and a female bag were recovered from the suspects. “Investigation is ongoing to apprehend other fleeing suspects in connection with this case and recover more arms and ammunition,” he said. The police boss said that a suspected cult member was arrested for killing one Adesegun Adesanya alias Ologodudu. According to him, “On February 21, a cult member and other members of his group went on a reprisal mission to avenge the deaths of their members, and killed one Adesegun Adesanya a.k.a. Ologodudu. “Upon receipt of this information, detectives tracked down the suspect in his remote stronghold where he was apprehended. “During investigation, the suspect made a confessional statement to the commission of the said crime. Alabi said Investigation was still ongoing to apprehend other fleeing suspects in a bid to recover their operational weapons. He assured that security of lives and property of residents of Lagos State would continue to be at the top of his policing vision for the state.