Ebonyi State Governor Dave Umahi yesterday said the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will find it difficult to approach Nigerians to campaign for votes if it indeed fields former President Goodluck Jonathan as its standard-bearer. The Ebonyi governor, who spoke to State House Correspondents after meeting President Muhammadu Buhari on a thank you visit to the Presidential Villa, expressed doubts about the news making the rounds that the former President had abandoned the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and joined the APC to re-contest his former office. News broke on Monday that the former President had joined the race, following the purchase of a set of APC nomination and expression of interest forms by a group of Fulani cattle herders for him. Jonathan, through his spokesman, Ikechukwu Eze, immediately refuted the development, explaining that he would openly declare interest, if he had one for the office of President. However, responding to questions from correspondents, Governor Umahi said the reported purchase of presidential nomination forms for the former President, whom he described as his father and benefactor, might be a ploy by mischievous people, who intended to embarrass him. He, however, noted that if the stories claiming that Jonathan defected to the ruling APC to re-contest the presidency turn out to be true, then such a development would become another wonder of the world, deserving a space in the Guinness Book of Records. “Jonathan is my father and God used him and his wife to make me a governor of the state. So anybody who has done anything for me, I’ve always remained very grateful to such person and I will continue to be very grateful to him, the wife for being available and my destiny helper, to achieve that feat.” “Probably if that miracle did not take place, then the miracles that happened in Ebonyi State, in terms of total evolution and transformation wouldn’t have taken place. So, he’s a man we can’t forget, just like Sani Abacha, who created the state and Mr. President. Of course, we’ve named the airport after him, we’ve named the light tunnel after him, we’ve named the Presidential Lodge after him. “Good intention that we don’t forget people who have helped us, but on the question of joining, I may not say much about that because I’ve seen a lot of write ups, denials, but if he decides to join and to run, it will, for me, become one of the wonders in this century.   Accept forms bought for you, group begs Jonathan     CNPP demands sack of CBN Governor Emefiele     N100m form: PDP accuses APC of treasury looting   “The reason is that if you go and see the campaign programmes of APC and you now ask President Jonathan to come and run, I don’t know what will be our campaign promises and what will be the stories we’ll be telling Nigerians. “I believe strongly that he was not aware of the forms and I want to believe that people that are mischievous would have bought the forms to embarrass him. But from what I read, he has quickly distanced himself from that. But like I said, if that is not the case, then the Guinness Book of Records is not totally filled up”, Umahi said. Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) has denied media reports that it obtained the All Progressives Congress (APC) nomination and expression of interest form for former President Goodluck Jonathan. It said it did not and would not buy any form for any candidate contesting the 2023 general election. The association said it had higher needs for money to assist its members being killed in the Southeast and other states in the country. The National Secretary of MACBAN, Baba Othman Ngelzarma, who made this known in a statement in Abuja, said the association would support a candidate that showed commitment to end the suffering of their members after the conclusion of primaries by the political parties. The statement said: “The attention of MACBAN has been drawn to a trending story in which we are being quoted as having bought a nomination form for former President Goodluck Jonathan for the 2023 elections. “We wish to make it clear that MACBAN did not and will not buy any form for any candidate contesting election. “MACBAN does not see any gain in this kind of profligate enterprise that adds no value to the millions of our members who are wallowing in poverty as a result of banditry, cattle rustling and the dastardly activities of self-appointed vigilantes who for all intent and purpose are committed to executing genocide. “We believe politics should be left to politicians, we see no mileage in supporting any politician when we are overwhelmed by the crisis being faced by our members nationwide. “We call on the media to take their time to understand the difference between the various Fulbe organisations and avoid dragging us into political mud.”