Nigerian Breweries Plc has signed a power purchase agreement with Konexa, an integrated energy development and investment platform to deliver 100 per cent renewable energy that will cover the electricity needs of its two breweries – Kakuri and Kudenda, in Kaduna State. Under the 10-year agreement, Nigerian Breweries has outsourced the power supply for its breweries, converting from fossil fuels into a full-service renewable energy solution, using hydro-power sources. This step is in line with its business strategy and ‘Brew a Better World’ sustainability agenda. The project is co-funded by Climate Fund Managers and Konexa. The Managing Director, NB, Mr. Hans Essaadi, described the agreement as another significant step in the company’s journey in its quest to operating a carbon-neutral plant in future, adding that its partnership with Konexa will reduce its energy costs and cost of production. Hans explained: “By 2030, we want to become a standard reference point in Nigeria when it comes to sustainability and efficient use of resources. Under our ‘Brew a Better World’ agenda, we are taking several bold steps to become a carbon-neutral company.’’   ‘Nigeria over due for full deregulation, subsidy removal’     Rising IOC’s asset sale and NNPC’s intervention     Fuel scarcity: The refinery challenge   The Commercial Director at Konexa, Joel Abrams, explained that the agreement was part of Konexa’s commitment to supporting industry, national governments and utilities to achieve clean and reliable 24-hour-a-day power. He added that the partnership anchors Konexa’s confidence in the power sector and will bring long-term investment and world-class operations to support the sector’s sustainability by improving reliability, quality of service, and job creation. “We are very pleased to be part of the energy transition that Nigerian Breweries Plc. is leading. This agreement is particularly significant in the current context of increasing energy costs from traditional fossil fuels. This type of solution can apply to many businesses across Nigeria, allowing them to obtain cost-effective power from a reliable partner while focusing on their core business,” he added. The Chief Investment Officer, Climate Fund Managers Tarun Brahma, said: “We are proud to support Konexa and look forward to actively supporting Nigerian Breweries Plc. as they demonstrate leadership in driving the decarbonisation of their operations in Nigeria.” Last year, NB Plc inaugurated its 663.6 KWP solar power plant at its Ibadan brewery, which supplies 1GWh yearly to the brewery while reducing its carbon emissions by 10,000 tonnes over a 15-year lifespan of the plant.