Crisis is brewing in the Nasarawa state chapter of the APC over the ongoing Primaries of the party as aspirants and other party chieftains alleged that hours after the conclusion of the governorship primary election in the state which witnessed the emergence of incumbent governor, Engineer Abdulahi Sule, as the gubernatorial candidate of the party for the 2023 general elections, the entire delegates list of the party has been allegedly doctored. Amidst increasing opposition to the alleged change of delegate lists, fears are mounting that the nomination of Governor Sule may be successfully challenged in court by the opposition if the ruling party goes ahead to use a new set of delegates to conduct the remaining primary elections in the state. “What that will mean is that the delegates who voted for the Governor at the primary will not be the same as those who will vote to nominate the House of Assembly, House of Representatives and the Senate candidates of the party,” a party source feared. He added that if the opposition decides to approach the court after APC’s victory at the general elections, it may spell doom for the ruling party. “We are crying out now to avoid a repeat of the Zamfara, Rivers and or Bayelsa states examples of 2019 here in Nasarawa State. We must ensure we don’t fall into the trap because of errors we can avoid. That will not help us here in Nasarawa APC,” another party source told The Nation on Friday. According to some claims by insiders within the ruling party, the change is allegedly on the directive of the national chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, who some sources claimed is bent on ensuring the emergence of his preferred candidates as flagbearers of the APC for the state House of Assembly, House of Representatives and Senate seats across the state. According to claims by some respondents who spoke with our correspondent, there is a struggle for control within the APC in the state and the move is targeted at taking over all the structures of the party from the incumbent governor ahead of 2027 when he will be completing his second tenure. “They don’t want him to be able to install a successor of his choice when he leaves office,’ a party chieftain said. The development may soon lead to breakdown of law and order in the state if urgent steps are not taken. Checks by our correspondent revealed that almost all of the state assembly aspirants have withdrawn from the race in protest. “They have all vowed that the exercise will not hold unless the legitimately elected delegates are restored to participate. There is tension within the party and it is clear that something urgent needs to be done to avert crisis,” our source added.   Aminu Tambuwal’s date with destiny     Opeifa says party supreme over Lagos West APC senatorial…     Dikko Radda wins Katsina APC guber ticket   In the races for the APC senatorial tickets across the state, the change of delegates’ list is likely to favour Barr. Danladi Evunlanza against incumbent Senator Godiya Akwashiki, in Nasarawa North Senatorial district. And Arch. Shehu Tukur may be favoured in Nasarawa West Senatorial district against Hon. Ahmed Wadada and Barr. Labaran Magaji. Supporters of the affected senatorial aspirants are already talking tough, vowing to resist the attempt to rig out their aspirants. The same change is not in favour of the member representing Keana, Awe, Doma federal constituency, Hon Hassan Nalaraba, as well as the member representing Lafia/Obi federal constituency, Hon. Abubakar Sarki Dahiru, who is seeking a 3rd term in office. Some party members are worried that the party risks disqualification of all its candidates as INEC has cautioned on the consequences of changing delegates’ lists midway into the elections. “INEC had told the party that the new delegates list flying around is not recognize by them and if allowed to participate in the selection of candidates will affect the candidates of the party and may likely be nullified like the case of Zamfara and Rivers State. This development may pave way for the court to declare all PDP candidates duly elected including the governorship seat on account that the APC do not have valid delegates. “A lot of house of assembly aspirants from Doma, Obi, Awe, Keana, Lafia , Nasarawa Eggon have withdrawn from the race scheduled this morning on account of change of delegates list. There is serious tension in the state as various aspirants are threatening to dump the party if the new delegates list is allowed to be used,” a party source, who is a leader of the APC in Lafia, explained while speaking with The Nation on Friday. Speaking to journalists at the party secretariat, chairman of the APC in the state, Dr. John Maaman, said he is disappointed in the National Secretariat of the party, adding that the state will not “tolerate this unwarranted doctoring of the official delegates list sent to the national Secretariat. We consider this undemocratic and that is capable of breeding disaffection, tension and disunity in the party, therefore the party will kit accept any list outside of Congress of the party conducted in the state. “The national Secretariat therefore in the interest of peace, unity, harmony and progress of the party ensure that the wishes of our law abiding and loyal party members are respected” he said