Even though her economy continues to be trapped in a prolonged crisis characterised by severe revenue shortfalls partly due to the volatility of international crude oil prices, Nigeria’s main revenue earner, and governments at all levels lack the resources to meet critical needs of the citizenry and stimulate accelerated economic growth, the Nigerian government still, inexplicably, has not taken steps to reap available benefits from alternative sources of revenue. For instance, constitutional impediments constrain many states from tapping and deriving revenue from mineral resources located in their terrain, from which they would also have normally paid tax to the Federation Account. This situation can simply not be allowed to continue as the country not only sinks daily into a debilitating debt trap that can jeopardise the lives of present and future generations, Nigeria itself faces serious existential challenges that cannot be effectively addressed without substantial increase in national revenues. It is against this background that we find it confounding that Nigerian governments at all levels have shown little or no interest in investing maximally in the country’s advantage in cashew nuts which abound in different parts of the country, and is a commodity of considerable value in the international market. Of course, cashew is not the only product in this category, others which used to be major foreign revenue earners for Nigeria, but which have now receded to insignificance in the Nigerian economy include cocoa, palm oil, sesame seed, cotton, gum-Arabic and groundnuts, among others.   Another Rohr deal     ASUU: strike without end     Not so fast   A national and commercial crop, which is cultivated by 18 states with more getting set to join the train of cashew producers, the 300,000 metric tonnes that the country exports annually is far below the capacity she has to reap the full potential of the commodity. One advantage cashew production has in Nigeria is that it can grow anywhere in the country, being able to thrive in both the arid regions of the North and the rain forest regions of the South. Currently, cashew is grown in the South-West, with the exception of Lagos; the North- Central, North -East and North-West. At an estimated price of $2,000 per tonne, the 300,000 metric tonnes exported by Nigeria realises at least $600 million for the country. It is unfortunate that cashew production in Nigeria suffers the same fate that make other valuable agricultural products only marginally profitable to the country relative to the huge returns that can be earned from the production and export of such crops. Just like cocoa, cotton and groundnuts, for instance, over 99% of the cashew nuts exported from Nigeria are raw and unprocessed, thus significantly reducing their value in the international market. When cashew is processed into cashew kernels, however, the market value rises from about $2,000 per tonne to over $6,000 per tonne. Today, Nigeria exports cashew nuts to countries such as India, Vietnam and increasingly China, but because the crop exported is in its raw form, the country is unable to benefit from what is essentially a one-sided and inequitable trading relationship. Other potential markets for Nigeria’s cashew include Poland, Japan, United Arab Emirates, Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. But the benefits of cashew trade with these countries will remain minuscule if steps are not urgently taken to modernise every aspect of cashew planting, cultivation, processing and packaging in Nigeria to meet global standards. Under the aegis of the National Cashew Association of Nigeria, efforts are being made to increase product yield per hectarage, add value to raw cashew nuts through processing and enhance the profitability of the business. But there is little that members of this association can do on their own. Substantial government support is critical and urgently too. According to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), the African Cashew Alliance (ACA), estimates raw cashew nuts production in Africa to be around 2.1 million metric tonnes, which represents about 57% of global production. UNCTAD states that in Vietnam and India, for example, the raw cashew nut is de-shelled and processed into cashews before re-exporting them to the US, Europe, the Middle East, China and Australia, where they are in turn roasted, salted and packaged for consumption. This is certainly the model for African and particularly Nigerian exporters of cashew nuts to follow.