Access Bank has partnered Naija Brand Chick (NBC) to support 200 entrepreneurs who participated in the women-dominated trade fair. The fifth NBC fair, held in Lagos,  attracted over 200 entrepreneurs and increased sales on their products and services. The two-day fair recorded about N100 million in gross sales. This success is attributed to the availability of payment solutions by Access Bank and is evidenced by testimonials from entrepreneurs and shoppers alike. Group Head, Women Banking, Abiodun Olubitan said: “Partnering Naija Brand Chick to organise the NBC Trade Fair was strategic to our vision to change the narrative for female entrepreneurs by providing opportunities for them to scale up and access new markets for profitability. The fair was successful, and this is the beginning for us. We intend to double the impact and sustain our position as the best bank for women entrepreneurs in Africa.”   Naira hits N589/$1 at parallel market     Dangote Cement raises N116b bond to finance expansion     OPEC: IEA, U.S. to release 240mb from reserves   Group Head, Emerging Business, Ayodele Olojede added: “Supporting SMEs is a strategic goal for Access Bank and collaborating with Naija Brand Chick provided us with an opportunity to achieve this goal. “ The trade fair provided our SMEs the opportunity to reach out to a larger group of customers as well as provided an avenue to network with other businesses. It provided a lot of the businesses which were predominantly online an avenue to connect personally with their customers, build credibility for their brands and increase their customer base. We were also able to leverage our payment platform- Swift Pay, which allowed users without ATM cards to easily pay for items bought at the fair, facilitate easy reconciliation and have payments confirmed without delays.” Access Bank through the W Initiative has enabled women entrepreneurs access discounted financing through the W Power Loan and participate in capacity building programs like the IFC Mini MBA. The Bank also confirms its passion for SMEs through the Emerging Business proposition for businesses in Africa. Access Bank remains committed to inspiring, connecting, and empowering women through the W Initiative- the home of everything the Bank has to offer women in Africa.