A member of Governance Advisory Council (GAC), Olorunfunmi Basorun, has endorsed the presidential aspiration of APC National Leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and second term bid of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. GAC is All Progressives Congress (APC) highest decision-making body in Lagos Basorun, a former secretary to the Lagos State government, and Ikorodu apex leader, also endorsed the second term aspiration of Senator Tokunbo Abiru and Lagos State House of Assembly (LAHA) member representing Ikorodu Constituency 2, Nurudeen Saka Solaja. Basorun, who hosted APC delegates and other chieftains of his Ikorodu caucus at his Igbogbo residence, addressed questions concerning his support for Solaja, a two-time LAHA member. Giving three reasons for his decision, the APC national delegate said it aligned with the party’s directive, adding that Solaja’s Constituency 2 had been cheated for 23 years in clinching a principal position in  the state. Basorun said: “The party’s directive is that we should not prevent nobody from contesting at the primaries; if the people want him or not, let him go and face the primary.   ‘Next president should come from South’     Administrator seeks sustainable environment     Tinubu gets more support from North   “Also on the inception of democracy, Ikorodu Constituency 2 since 1999 has not benefited from any of the seven principal offices in the House of Assembly and we want the incumbent lawmaker to be part of the principal officers so more dividends of democracy will come to our constituency, a newcomer cannot do that for us”. The senior lawyer further referenced Solaja’s performance in office as an advantage, saying: “I can attest to his achievements in the three councils (Igbogbo, Ijede, and Imota LCDAs) that make up Ikorodu Constituency 2. “He performed creditably on semi-urban, and rural road upgrades across the 13 wards yearly, state-facilitated full construction and reconstruction of new and ongoing roads, education, youth and women empowerment, social amenities, human-capital development, industrialisation and improving Ikorodu Constituency II’s economy, employment, and others. “For me, as a constituency that is just growing up with population explosion, our base is in need of development and a sound experienced legislator to be part of the principal officers in the next 10th Assembly of Lagos State. “NS deserves our support to return and attract more development to Ikorodu Constituency 2,” Basorun said. Responding, Solaja hailed Basorun, the apex leaders of Ikorodu, APC stakeholders in Basorun’s group and delegates, for backing his aspiration. Solaja salutes the courage and positive trajectory of a co-aspirant Hammed Aroyewun (HOA) who later withdrew from the race, and promised that he would consolidate the good work  he started with other related activities, while forging paths for new ones.