The administration of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State through the State Scholarship Board has secured fully-funded scholarships for another 28 post graduate students who are indigenes of the state to study in Europe and America. Addressing newsmen when he led the beneficiaries to the Government House, Enugu, on Friday, to thank Governor Ugwuanyi, Executive Secretary of the Enugu State Scholarship Board, Levi Abonyi, disclosed that the scholarship mentorship programme was designed and developed by the Board to expose Enugu students to available funding opportunities around the world. Abonyi, a lawyer, revealed that the scholarship programme was approved by the State Executive Council (EXCO), adding that the programme has produced 46 fully-funded Masters and PhD students from the state. It would be recalled that the first batch of the programme launched in October 2020 had 18 Enugu State indigenes as beneficiaries. The Executive Secretary explained that programme prepares fresh graduates to enroll directly into PhD programmes without first obtaining a Master’s degree.   Nnamani denies beating up constituent at meeting     Sit-at-home: Pro-Biafra group accuses IPOB members of…     Ezemba is chairman of open heart centre   He added that Ugwuanyi administration’s “goal is to produce a generation of intellectuals who will be better equipped to turn the state around economically and who will be better disposed to compete favourably globally.” Pressed further, Abonyi said that it “pays the 6 scholarship mentors monthly allowances as honorarium for their services, takes care of the cost of Visa, flight tickets, initial living expenses and other logistics of all successful students at the cost of N1,000,000.00, and comes in as a guarantor for the issuance of visas to the benefiting students.” Expressing gratitude to Governor Ugwuanyi on behalf of the beneficiaries, Lillian Chinenye Ekowo, who will be travelling to the University of Notre Dame, United States, thanked the governor for availing them the opportunity to benefit from the scholarship board, disclosing that “Today, each one of us was awarded the scholarship of N1million travelling expenses.” Another beneficiary, Mathias Chukwudi Isiani, appreciated the governor for his benevolence and commitment to youth empowerment and education. On his part, one of the 18 beneficiaries of the first batch of the scholarship mentorship programme in 2020, Odinaka Kingsley Eze, who graduated from University of Mississippi, USA, expressed delight that “this mentorship programme has up to 46 ambassadors and all thanks to His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Lawrence Ugwuanyi for the opportunity.”