Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya yesterday warned against indiscriminate dumping of refuse and blocking of water ways in Gombe metropolis as the rain approaches. The Governor, who stated this while on inspection tour of the ongoing gully erosion control and roads projects in the state capital, warned those removing soil from drainage lines to desist. He said the menace of the removal of soil along drainage lines by surface water runoff has been one of the serious environmental problems affecting the state capital, as it causes destruction of properties worth millions of Naira and disruption of businesses. The governor explained that there are more than 200 active gullies across Gombe State and most of them are within the vicinity of the state capital. “You’ll recall that we had already executed the Gombe State University-Malam Inna Erosion Control Works in collaboration with the Nigeria Erosion and Watershed Management Project, NEWMAP, with a view to addressing severe Gully Erosion problems in the short term, reduce vulnerability to soil erosion and climate variability in the medium term, such as our aforestation programme,  the Gombe Goes Green Project,” he said.   Abuja residents protest exorbitant AEDC bills     Abuja-Kaduna highway communities beg El-Rufai not to…     I was denied participation in guber primary, Ex-Bauchi Gov…   He promised to continue to work in collaboration with other development partners to address the problem of gully erosion in the state. “We shall continue to work in collaboration with World Bank and Federal Ministry of Environment to address the problem of gully erosion and other related problems in Gombe State. “People should avoid building houses or erecting structures on waterways and also stop the attitude of dumping refuse in the drainages. This obstructs free flow of water which may result into catastrophic flooding”, he warned. The governor promised to construct a linking road parallel to the gully erosion site to ease movement of goods and services in the area. The governor also inspected the ongoing 4.5km Idi-Unguwa-Uku-Malam-Inna-Kagarawal Road initiated by his administration which has reached a considerable level of completion. Speaking at the road site, Governor Inuwa expressed satisfaction at the speed and quality of the project.