It has the trappings of a past of feudal intrigues in the age of African monarchy. A certain man of 42 years of age did not want the man on the throne to continue, and his perceived option to do that was the old-fashioned way. He killed him. Omoniyi Ademola, who was a prince of the EkitI throne in southwest Nigeria, ambushed the king, Oba Gbadebo Ibitoye, the Onise of Odo-Oro Ekiti in Ikole Council of Ekiti State. The incident took place in August, 2018. The judge recently sentenced him to death. According to an eye-witness account, Ademola plotted and executed the horror. “We were at the palace on that day for Onise-in-Council meeting, at about 7:00 a.m., before the commencement of the meeting, Ademola entered the palace and sat on Kabiyesi’s seat, but the chiefs frowned on his action and drove him away. “After the meeting,  the late Onise in the company of his male clerk were trekking back to the main palace, Ademola came out of his hiding and attacked Kabiyesi with a knife and stabbed him to death. Before that day he had been parading himself as the king of the town”, confessed one of the chiefs. The issue of insanity was raised, but Ademola who called no witness to make his case of innocence did not escape the majesty of justice. The presiding judge, Justice Olukayode Ogundana, threw out the insanity charge. “Consequently, the defendant, Omoniyi Ademola Stephen is hereby sentenced to death and shall be hanged until he breathes his last. May the good Lord have mercy upon his soul”, the judge pronounced.   How soon can Nigeria’s reclamation begin?     Time to run     Nigeria’s future in the face of ASUU strike   The killing of the monarch was also attributed to Ademola’s envy of the king, and there were reports that he paraded himself about as the authentic king of the town. This example of presumptuousness is not new, and it brings to the fore the desperate quest in the society for positions in the royal palace. It also shows that, for all the acclaim of the democratic or republican virtue in this society, royalty is a big sentiment of the day. Ademola is only an extreme picture of a general nostalgia for the throne, the palace rituals and the pomp of regal grandeur. It also reflects our toleration, even within the practice of democracy, of persons and groups that privilege the attitudes and impunity over a proper democratic process whether in decision-making or even in the recruitment of politicians and election of public office holders from the local government chairman to the president. Even those who run for office must pay visit, and bow. Though they are constitutionally sinecure, a politician ignores them at their own risks. It is a picture of the hypocrisy of our grasp of modernity. Many big names are not complete until they become chiefs, and they cut across all the strata of our so-called enlightened society, from the chief executive to the justice to the academic. The other issue raised is the place of the death penalty. Although the judge sentenced Ademola to death, it is not often in spite of the law that the death sentence is executed. The final decision to execute often lies in the hands of the state governors, and they shy away from signing off on a mortal’s last hour. We can recall that Lagos State governors have stayed away from giving the Reverend King his last testament. It is not Lagos alone, we have seen them in other states. When Adams Oshiomhole did one it raised an uproar. There is law, and there is fulfilment. We seem content to live with the contradiction. The law seems no more than mere line in the book. Most countries in the world have cancelled the law because of statistics that question its deterrence value.