Chief David Edevbie is a three-time Commissioner for Finance in Delta State, Principal Secretary to the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua, and the immediate past Chief of Staff to the Delta State Governor is one of the governorship aspirants in Delta State on the platform of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP). He believes with his wide range of experience in the private and public sectors. He spoke with a group of journalists. Gbenga Aderanti reports. Excerpts. ONE would have thought that as a technocrat and development economist, you would have been in the background. Why did you join the Delta governorship race? I’m driven by the collective aspiration of most inhabitants to take our beloved Delta State quickly to greater development heights and make life more abundant and meaningful for everyone. I’m in a way trying to ‘donate’ myself as the channel through which to give effect to the yearning of Deltans to join the rest of humanity as a new world order beckons. Most Deltans home and in the diaspora are aware of the resources available to the state and are fed up with the current situation. They rightly feel that I should be the torchbearer to lead our people into the realms of greater economic prosperity. But you are more of a technocrat… I have observed that the word ‘technocrat’ means different things to different people. Suffice to note that a technocrat is essentially defined as a person who has technical knowledge as well as some political power. A technocrat is a person who applies modern, transnational knowledge to developing societies. Such a person is concerned with the application of problem-solving analytical skills to the perplexing question of development. In addition to implementing change, an equally important contribution is often creating awareness amongst his/her people of the potential directions of change. Politics, especially in Nigeria’s First Republic, was mainly the preserve of intellectuals and our top political leaders were technocrats educated in England or other foreign countries. They developed policies that were designed to make Nigeria a world power in a few decades. This was also mostly the case in the Second Republic, but things took a different turn for the worse after that. Today, sadly, our best and brightest flee the country or go into the private sector for well-paid jobs as a result the current quality of service delivery in politics and in the public sector leaves a lot to be desired. I am still essentially a technocrat. However, over time it has become abundantly clear to me that to implement the kind of changes we all desire in this country, one must not only possess political power, one must control it from the top. Hence, my reluctant but necessary metamorphosis to be a politician. My transition from being a technocrat to politician dates to 1999 when I was appointed as the Commissioner for Finance in Delta State. I served Delta State twice consecutively in that position. I later served as Director of Finance and Strategy of the President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua Campaign Organisation in 2006 and 2007 and worked with politicians from all over Nigeria. After that, I became Principal Secretary to the President as a replacement for the Chief of Staff. In this capacity, I not only initiated policies and supervised implementation but was largely in charge of the day-to-day running of the Presidency. And, of course, the Presidency is pan-Nigerian, and I had to work with politicians, technocrats, and other people to drive the system. Outside the foregoing, I tried my hands at practical politics in 2014 when I participated in the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) primaries. It was a necessary learning process for me. I went on to serve as Finance Commissioner for the third time and subsequently as Chief of Staff to the current Governor of Delta State. I am now consulting and campaigning to be the next Governor of Delta State. Your mantra is ‘Modernise Delta’. What is this all about? The slogan or mantra as you call it ‘Modernise Delta’ is a product of development thinking that seeks to leapfrog Delta State into an Industrial Revolution and make it a power player in the new world order. Mine is a forward-looking development agenda and is the result of critical engagements involving business, government, and civil society leaders, academics, technology pioneers, and young people within Delta State, Nigeria, Africa, and beyond. The ‘Modernise Delta’ agenda is, therefore, the product of the enlightened wisdom of many who not only understand the development problems of developing economies but can also proffer solutions.   2023: Anxiety mounts in Ogun APC over primaries     Alleged N240m contract: EFCC releases Etteh from custody     Akin Lewis strikes gold   The agenda is focused on five key development goals of energy, security, job and wealth creation, social infrastructure, and public sector reforms. What is your relationship with the incumbent Governor Ifeanyi Okowa? Our relationship is very cordial. He is my friend and political leader.  And, over the years we have supported each other in several ways. I worked with him as a colleague for approximately five years and subsequently for him for about six years initially as Finance Commissioner and later as Chief of Staff. I know that he reposes a lot of confidence in me. How prepared are you for the PDP primaries and, how do you consider your chances with the delegates? I should say that I am fully prepared and that my chances with the delegates during the PDP primaries are bright if they are free and fair. To start with, I have consulted far and wide and taken my campaign message to every nook and cranny of Delta State. I consulted party leaders and members. I consulted opinion leaders. I took my message to different interest groups. I sought the prayers and endorsement of our highly-revered royal fathers across the state. I left no stone unturned. My team worked day and night. We crafted a manifesto and a campaign message. And, in recognition of my preparedness, no fewer than 200 groups and associations have endorsed my aspiration and, by extension, my candidacy. I was on the shortlist of three by the DC-23. Indeed,  the Urhobo Progress Union (UPU), has endorsed me again as the Urhobo aspirant of choice for Delta 2023 governorship just as it did ahead of the 2014 PDP primaries. My consultation was untiring, and the delegates saw and identified with my message. What is your message to the delegates and Deltans in general? My message is simple and that has been what I have been propagating this far. Vote for me. Vote for progress. I understand what the problems are, and I am in the right position and well-equipped to provide developmental solutions. They should join me so that we can together modernise our beloved Delta.