The Sultan of Sokoto and President-General of the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, has enjoined Nigerians to love one another and elect quality leaders in the 2023 general elections. The Sultan urged Muslims to pray for peace and the country’s stability, and also appealed to the government to stem the tide of inflation, while urging traders to desist from arbitrarily price increase. He also appealed to politicians to consider politics as service to the nation, which should not be pursued as a do-or-die affair. “Nigerians should freely choose their leaders on the basis of those who will lead them with justice, fairness and character in line with our usual prayer, “O Allah, make the best of us our leaders, and don’t make the worst of us our leaders. “Don’t make us, on account of our sins, be under those who will neither fear you nor be compassionate to us,” he said.   Soyinka visits Sunday Igboho in Cotonou     Mother, child recovered dead from collapsed Lagos building     Death toll hits six in Lagos building collapse   The Sultan urged Muslims to exercise their rights to contest for elective positions and participate actively in the electoral process by not only obtaining their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs), but also cast their votes during elections. Also, the Muslim Media Practitioners of Nigeria (MMPN) urged Muslims to let the lessons learnt during the period continue to reflect in them. The National President, Alhaji Abdur-Rahman Balogun, said the lessons of self-restraint, sacrifice, charity, fear of Allah, devotion and love of mankind imbibed during the period must continue all year round. On the economy, Balogun implored the Federal Government to cushion the effects of inflation on the citizenry with an aggressive policy aimed at relieving Nigerians from the present economic crunch. He appealed to all stakeholders to play the political game with the fear of Allah and be fair to all with the hope that all shall give account of their deeds on the day of reckoning.