A Federal High Court sitting in Makurdi, the Benue State capital has sentenced a 24-year-old woman, Mercy Sese, to seven years in prison with the option of N4.5m fine for trafficking young girls to Mali for prostitution. The trial judge, Justice Abdul Dogo, sentenced the accused after she pleaded guilty to a 7-count charge preferred against her for the offence of organising foreign trips for young girls to Mali for sexual exploitation. According to the judge, the offence is contrary to sections 18, 27 and 29 of the Trafficking in Persons Prohibition Enforcement and Administration Act 2015. In January 2022, the Makurdi Zonal Command of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) arrested Sese at a popular motor park in Makurdi with some young girls who were to be trafficked. The Makurdi Zonal Commander of NAPTIP, Mr. Gloria Bai, said huge sums of money, including foreign currencies were recovered from Sese.   JUST IN: Three killed as shop collapses in Ebonyi market     BREAKING: JAMB releases 2022 UTME result     2023: I won’t take loan as President, says Jack-Rich   Her words, “The command in the early hours of Friday, January 7, 2022, received a call from a concerned citizen from Duku Motor Park at Wurukum Makurdi, who alerted the command of a suspected case of human trafficking involving seven young girls of which one is the suspected trafficker. Officers of the command arrived at Duku Motor Park a few minutes after receiving the call and met the six ladies and the suspect who said they were all travelling to Lagos. Bai said the victims were between the ages 16 – 24 years by facial analysis. At the time of the arrival, the Nigerian Police were also on ground because they were also called on the matter “About N500,000 was found on the suspect alongside some foreign currencies, indicating that the victims were to be moved to a destination outside the country yet to be determined.” Reacting to the judgement, the Makurdi Zonal Commander of NAPTIP who commended the judge, said we are actually happy that she was convicted and sentenced, adding that it will serve as a deterrent to others who might want to go the same way.