The Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU) has kicked against an attempt by the Governing Council of Emmanuel Alayande College of Education, Oyo State to extend the tenure of the College’s Provost, Dr Razak Adetunji Adefabi. The union said the tenure of the Provost will expire on May 15; having served two terms of eight years. COEASU, however, said it observed the Governing Council has refused to begin the process of appointing a new Provost in accordance with the Law that established the College. The National Executive Council (NEC) of COEASU accused the governing council of attempting to tinker with the idea of extending the tenure of the Provost for some self-serving reasons.   Fed Govt inducts 338 medical laboratory scientists     1.4m girls access education in North     Ortom to Miyetti Allah: we’ll meet in court   In a statement yesterday in Abuja by the General Secretary of COEASU, Dr Ahmed Lawan, the union said: “The purported attempt is an abuse of the law that established the college and an aberration of the globally- acceptable procedures of terminal appointment of Provost. This attempt, if allowed to see the light of the day, will not only become a bad precedent but will poach on the career progression, privileges and rights of other qualified members of staff of the college to serve the government and the people of Oyo State. “The union appreciates the worker-friendly disposition of the governor, Oluseyi Makinde, especially in the area of members of staff welfare and infrastructural development. “This obnoxious idea, which is out of the way in the practice of democracy, if allowed to be hatched, would pitch the union against the government since this attempt is out of the way in the practice of democracy and would paint it in bad light the enviable worker-friendly posture of the governor, the personality of whom the union has continually regarded as a man of endless merit. “The NEC, therefore, astutely supports the decision of the COEASU Chapter Congress of the College to reject this move which had generated agitations and public demonstrations among restive members of the college. “We, therefore, enjoin the governor to truncate this process being arranged by the Governing Council and some perfidious adventurers within the circle of some politicians and political office holders in Oyo State. A stitch in time saves nine!”