The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress on Saturday met with some state governors where the party is having a crisis ahead of the 2023 general elections. It was gathered that the meeting was part of moves to stop the crisis in some of its controlled states from leading to defection. The governors who the chairman met with between Friday and Saturday morning couldn’t be confirmed as of the time of filing this report. The Special Assistant to the APC National Chairman, Prof Abdullahi Yau, disclosed this at a webinar organised by APC Ward to Ward Ambassadors Diaspora Network on Saturday. The webinar had “Democracy in Nigeria: Mobilising Global Support for progress and continuity” as its theme. During the webinar, Yau said the national chairman was trying to reconcile aggrieved members who want to leave the party for one reason or the other. He said: “We are in the period where we are preparing to hold our primaries in all the states both for governorship, national as well as state assembly and both for the presidential primary which is scheduled for Friday. “As we all know, we have a lot of crises in the party. We have a lot of states where some people want to leave the party and this is what he (Adamu) is doing. We are trying as much as possible to see that our aggrieved members – a lot of people for instance in Kano, Kebbi, Benue, and other states where we have huge members and these are people with strong supporters. They are trying to leave the party for some reasons and the chairman on a daily basis is trying to reconcile these aggrieved members.   Benue Catholic Church suspends priest over partisan politics     Over 10,000 electoral officers to handle Ekiti guber…     Saraki: I have capacity to unite Nigeria   “This is one of the reasons why this morning (Saturday) he was mandated to meet with some governors. We didn’t sleep the whole night till this morning. He is meeting with some governors, aggrieved members and other stakeholders in the APC. What he is doing is for the party and I believe it is for the success of this party. Speaking on the presidential primary election, he assured that all the aspirants would be given the freedom to exercise their right as a Nigerian to contest, adding that everybody will be satisfied with whoever that will emerge from the primaries. He also assured that no aspirant will leave the party at the end of the primaries as the party has put in place a committee to address the grievances of aggrieved members. Yau said: “I want to assure you that after the primaries none of the contestants or aspirants will leave the party. You can see that unlike the other parties where you see aspirants exchanging words, in our party, all the aspirants are calm, everybody is going left and right, trying to win votes for themselves. “I assure you this is the most interesting party, the number of people that are contesting and they are going to give everybody the freedom to exercise your right as a Nigerian to contest and at the end of the exercise, just like what happened in the national convention, you will see that everybody will be satisfied with whoever that will emerge from the primaries. “Unless you have a process that is not well coordinated, a process that is marred by malpractices that is when will be aggrieved and will want to leave the party but if you are given the opportunity to exercise your right and you go to the primaries and you think there is fairness in what we do in the primaries and you lose I don’t think you will have any reason to leave the party.” National Coordinator, APC Ward to Ward Ambassadors, Abuja Nigeria, Dr Myke Ozurumba, said the group will continue to mobilise Nigerians both home and abroad to ensure the party retains power in 2023.