An indigenous tech firm, Leofield, has estimated the value of freelance workforce on the African continent to be worth $20billion. A freelancer is an independent labourer who earns wages on a per-job or per-task, typically for short-term work. Benefits of freelancing include the freedom to work from home or from a non-traditional workspace, a flexible work schedule, and a better work-life balance. The CEO of Leofied, Mr. Jonathan Frank Omonigho, who spoke in Lagos yesterday during the launch of what he described as the biggest freelance platform to strengthen commerce and the workforce across Africa, said the platform will help to harness the potential of the vast freelance market. Omonigho said: “There are a couple of freelance platforms in Africa but most have failed to cater for the needs of African freelancers in Africa. We could see how our workforce struggled during the pandemic. With Leofied, we seek to bridge this gap, improve on the lapses and provide a platform for this fast springing workforce to thrive on.”   Hogan Guards is Africa’s risk management solution…     NIMASA, Navy renew fight against piracy, oil theft     Minister seeks more investments in economic zones   Leofied, an online community that connects consumers and businesses to freelance service professionals, said it has a target of $20 billion in freelance commerce over the next couple of years, disrupt and improve the industry in the country and across the continent. The platform provides a route for financial freedom for Nigerians and Africans allowing them to make money without limits from the comfort of their homes. Omonigho said with the booming market, Leofied connects the best freelancers across the continent to a global audience, monetizing skills and servicing organisations. He added that one of the major challenges Leofied is seeking to improve is payments by providing a variety of channels through which freelancers get paid both locally and internationally. These channels include crypto, international bank transfers, in-app wallets and lots more. “Individuals and organizations are also not left behind as Leofied seeks to partner with top organisations looking to hire permanent and temporary manpower to execute jobs and projects. “African companies are working on the digitalisation of their activities to meet the needs of the international markets and Leofied stands at the forefront of this for the freelance community,” Omonigho said.