Fourteen days to the presidential primaries of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP), leading contenders for the presidential ticket of the party are emerging as the aspirants get set to do battle later in the month. ‘Dare Odufowokan, Assistant Editor examines the emerging forerunners in the contest and reports on their chances of clinching the 2023 presidential ticket of the opposition party. PRESIDENTIAL aspirants on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), after months of campaigns from one state to the other in search of the support of the party’s 3,700 delegates ahead of the party’s Presidential primary scheduled for May 28-29, 2022, are now ready to do battle for the opposition’s party’s much coveted 2023 presidential ticket. The Nation gathered that most of the presidential hopefuls are now busy lobbying party leaders and other prominent stakeholders for support in pursuit of their aspirations. “The underground politicking has increased just as the open campaign is subsiding. The serious ones among the aspirants have reached out to the delegates who will be voting at the primary election. Now, they are wrapping up their activities by talking to the leaders and stakeholders in each state,” a source said. Seventeen chieftains of the opposition party paid N41million to obtain the expression of interest and nomination forms of PDP. Upon the closure of the sales of the forms, the party proceeded to screen the aspirants. The presidential screening committee of the party headed by Senator David Mark attended to all the aspirants, and at the end of the process, 15 of them were cleared while two were disqualified from the race. PDP chieftains who appeared before the screening committee include former Vice President, Abubakar Atiku, two former Senate Presidents, Bukola Saraki and Anyim Pius Anyim as well as Governors Aminu Tambuwa, Nyesom Wike, Bala Mohammed, Emmanuel Udom, of Sokoto, Rivers, Bauchi and Akwa Ibom states respectively. Others are businessman, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, former Governors Peter Obi and Ayo Fayose of Anambra and Ekiti States, Chief Sam Ohunabunwa, Dele Momodu, Charles Okwudili, Chikwendu Kalu, Cosmos Ndukwe and Olivia Tarela, who is the only female among the PDP presidential aspirants. The two aspirants disqualified by the committee, who also had their disqualification upheld by the party’s appeal panel earlier this month are former lawmaker, Cosmas Ndukwe, and a US-based medical doctor, Nwachukwu Anakwenze. The party also announced that the two aspirants will not be refunded their N40m fees paid for nomination and expression of interest forms.   THE CONTENDERS With the decision of the party to shun its tradition of zoning the presidency to a particular zone in line with its rotation principle, many pundits are now quick to predict that the race for the 2023 presidential ticket of the opposition PDP is among Atiku, Wike, Saraki and Tambuwal. To this school of thoughts, these four aspirants have done the most work towards canvassing for the supports of party leaders and delegates in the past months. In spite of growing indications that the party’s leadership may have resolved to produce a northern presidential candidate owing to its belief that it can only unseat the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) with a candidate from the north, Governor Wike of Rivers state, who has emerged as the leading aspirant from the southern zone, is still rated by many analysts as someone who can pull a surprise and alter the party’s plan during the primary election. “The thinking in the PDP today is more about winning the next presidential election and displacing the APC from Aso Rock and not fulfilling an age long tradition. The APC used the same gimmick in 2025 when it picked Buhari from the north and defeated the PDP banking on the votes from the region. The PDP leadership has weighed all the options and we are going for what is best for the party in the current circumstance,” a party leader said. Our correspondent also gathered that there is a ground swell of opinion within the party that former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and ex-Senate President Bukola Saraki are the best options among the numerous northern presidential aspirants. While Atiku’s supporters are touting his vast political networks across the country as what PDP needs to unseat the APC, Saraki’s promoters are quick to point to his dual origin in both the north and the south. “With Saraki, we will appeal to both the north Saraki’s and the southern zones. He is from Kwara in the northern region and a Fulani at that. But his Yoruba ancestry can also not be wished away. With that, he is a candidate the south can warm up to. The party leaders are not blind to all these attributes and what the PDP can gain by choosing Bukola as its candidate from the north in 2023,” our source added. Recall that some weeks back, a group of party elders from the north had announced Saraki and Mohammed as the preferred northern consensus candidates. The party leaders said any of the two would be supported by the people of the region. Expectedly, Atiku, Tambuwal and many other northern aspirants rejected the position of the elders and dismissed it as unrealistic.   ATIKU ABUBAKAR A founding father of the party, he served as Vice President for eight years on the platform of the PDP. He was the party’s candidate in the 2019 election. He ran against and lost to incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari. He is believed to be very popular in the southeast. His northeastern zone too is expected to go with him all things being equal. “This time around is different; our journey will not end at the poll; we will get to work and rescue Nigeria. I invite every Nigerian to join me in this mission to save our dear country. Nigeria is a land of possibility. There is no challenging background that will make any Nigerian give up. I am a living witness to what is possible in Nigeria.” “Under my presidency, I want to focus on five key areas: the unity of Nigeria, security, economy, education and devolving more resources and powers to the federating units. I have never been this optimistic, and with your support and God’s grace, we will get to the promised land,” Atiku had said with optimism at the declaration of his aspirantion. At 75, many believe this may be his last shot at the presidency, an ambition he had been nursing since 1992. Many party stalwarts see him as the best option for the PDP if the party is desirous of defeating any of the heavyweights currently jostling for the ticket of the ruling APC. “It is only an Atiku that can defeat someone like Asiwaju Bola Tinubu of the APC. PDP needs Atiku now more than ever before,’ a source said. His famed huge war-chest is also being adduced as a reason for his candidature by his supporters. “PDP is not the ruling party. We need someone who can finance a presidential election with little or no support,” a party source said. In recent times, he has made considerable overtures to the delegates in the southwest and north-central of the country. He remains a frontrunner for the ticket. But claims in some quarters that his candidature is feared by some leading chieftains of the party, especially in the north, is an albatross to his aspiration. The Nation gathered that his failure to emerge as one of the proposed consensus aspirants of the north is due to this fear. His unending face-off with some of the governors of the party since 2019 is also a threat.   NYESOM WIKE He prides himself as the only presidential aspirant who had never left the PDP since 1999. He was elected as a two-term Executive Chairman of Obio Akpor Local Government Area from 1999 to 2007. He was appointed Minister in July 2011. Wike resigned before finishing his term to campaign for Governor of Rivers State. He won the election and was re-elected in 2019. He has emerged as the frontrunner among aspirants from the south. He is one of the contenders who had campaigned and reached out the most. According to his campaign team, he has been to almost every state of the country to canvass for votes. He is almost the most talked about aspirant as at today. Many political observers expect him to pull a surprise at the primary election, especially on the strength of the pro-zoning agitation within the party which he championed. Amidst allegations that he is actually positioning himself for the vice-presidential ticket of the party, the Rivers State governor daily vows that he will not settle for anything other than the presidency. His financial strength and famed political spread are to his advantages. He will pocket the votes of delegates in Rivers State and do very well in the south-south zone. “I want to become Nigeria’s President because one, we are in problem. And I want to offer myself to the people of this country to solve such problems. Because I do know, as a man who loves this country, as a man who is committed to the development of this country, you can’t be standing aloof, seeing your country sliding the way it is sliding.   The squandering of a Goodluck     JUST IN: Soludo visits IPOB leader Kanu in detention     Politicians mopping up forex ahead party primaries – BDC…   “As Governor of Rivers State, I solve problems. And I believe that should we just close our eyes and allow this country to go the way it is going? I say, no. So I’m going to offer myself, so I can contribute. I have the ability to solve Nigeria’s insecurity problems. You remember my war against oil bunkering in Rivers State,” Wike said about his aspiration. His current efforts in the northern zones have also been very promising with his handlers saying he has the tacit support of many groups within the party ahead of the primary election. But his constant disagreements with the leadership of the party and colleague governors are something to worry about for his supporters as he goes to the shadow poll.   BUKOLA SARAKI He had contested for the same position in 2019 but lost out in the primaries. Saraki is a former two-term governor of Kwara state who also served as senate president till 2019. He was proposed alongside another aspirant as northern consensus candidates by the Northern Elders Forum. The decision is still generating controversy within the party. “As Senate President, I defended the integrity of the National Assembly, sometimes, at great personal cost. In all the positions I occupied, I was driven by the deep conviction to serve, help, proffer solutions and leave behind a legacy of courage, hard work and unyielding commitment to making a difference. Perhaps, more importantly, I have gone into each of these positions with clearly thought-out plans, decided well in advance,” he said. Saraki’s promoters are quick to point to his dual origin in both the north and the south. “With Saraki, we will appeal to both the north Saraki’s and the southern zones. He is from Kwara in the northern region and a Fulani at that. But his Yoruba ancestry can also not be wished away. With that, he is a candidate the south can warm up to. The party leaders are not blind to all these attributes and what the PDP can gain by choosing Bukola as its candidate from the north in 2023,” our source added. He served as the Director General of Atiku’s campaign in 2019. His critics within and outside the party however say he is no longer the political giant he used to be when he was the strongman of Kwara politics, following the loss of the state to the APC in 2019. “Saraki will need to first win back his home state for the PDP before talking about being our presidential candidate,” a source said. Saraki will win the chunk of the votes from Kwara state and do very well in other north central state at the primary election. His performances in other states, especially in the northwest and southwest will determine how far he can go. His handlers say using the many contacts he garnered and nurtured as Senate President, he will perform better than he used to do in the southeast and south-south. Although it caused a storm several weeks ago, the recommendation by Northern Elders of Saraki and Bala Mohammed as consensus aspirants for the region is seen as a plus for the former Kwara governor. Analysts say it is significant that PDP grandees who were the forces behind the consensus arrangement overlooked the likes of Atiku and Tambuwal and plumbed for the former Senate President. These same PDP elder-statesmen who prefer to operate behind the scenes were the same ones who sent former Minister of Defence, General Aliyu Gusau (rtd) to Port Harcourt in 2019 to turn the race away from Tambuwal and in the direction of Atiku. The consensus report may just be an indicator of where they are looking this time around.   AMINU TAMBUWAL He is the incumbent governor of Sokoto state who served as Speaker of the House of Representatives till 2015. He first contested for the PDP presidential ticket in 2019 but came second to Atiku in the primary election. Pundits say his chances are not as bright as they were during the last struggle for the ticket of the opposition party owing to certain developments within and outside the party. He was adjudged one of the favourites in the race at the very beginning but his ratings plummeted following the declaration of Governor Wike for the presidential race. The Rivers governor was no doubt one of the strong pillars behind Tambuwal’s 2019 presidential aspiration which saw him coming a close second to Atiku. Wike’s aspiration obviously hurt the chances of Tambuwal this time around. His popularity in his native Sokoto is also believed to have waned as he struggled to win re-election in 2019 with less than 400 votes. His omission from the list of proposed northern consensus candidates also hurt his case. He will nonetheless perform well in the northwest zone and struggle to share delegates in Imo and Anambra states owing to the support he enjoys from his former Deputy, Emeka Ihedioha.   BALA MOHAMMED    The Bauchi State governor is a former minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). He is one of the very first to declare his presidential bid. He emerged as an unexpected pick as one of the two consensus candidates from the north by NEF. Sources close to him say he is toying with the possibility of picking the PDP presidential ticket while still gunning for re-election as governor. This distraction may be the reason for his lackluster campaign and not to brilliant chance in the presidential contest. It is being rumoured that he may abandon the presidential pursuit to concentrate on his re-election bid in Bauchi. At best, he will pick votes of delegates in his state and manage to garner some more from neigbourng Gombe state and the FCT if he decides to contest the presidential primary election of the PDP.   OTHERS Udom Emmanuel, the two-term governor of Akwa Ibom state is a surprise inclusion in the race for the PDP presidential ticket. He didn’t do much to project his aspiration outside his home state. This will work against him. Talks are rife that he is actually interested in the vice presidential slot. Beyond winning the votes of delegates from his state, he may not do much. Anyim Pius Anyim, former senate president and former secretary to the government of the federation is also an early joiner in the race. He has moved round to canvass for votes but pundits say he is not entrenched in the politics of the opposition party enough to pull any surprise at the primary election. He will garner some votes in the southeast on the strength of the agitation for power shift but may not do much outside his zone. Peter Obi, a former governor of Anambra state who was the Vice Presidential candidate of the PDP in 2019, is not seen as a strong contender by pundits. A highly respected economist who is adjudged to have governed Anambra state well, he is one of the preferred candidates from the southeast zone. But he doesn’t seem to have the required political structure to make a successful bid for the presidential ticket of the opposition party. Another aspirant in the race is Mohammed Hayatu-Deen. He is the Chairman of the Renaissance Development Forum. He is an experienced banker, economist, project finance executive, administrator, and elder statesman with about forty years’ experience across multiple Nigerian industries. The Borno state born Shuwa Arab has surprised many with the zeal he pursued his presidential aspiration. He is among those cleared to contest the primary election of the PDP but many pundits say he may not make much impact largely because he is to known to have been part of the party’s politics before now. Also in the race is immediate past President of the Nigerian Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, Sam Ohuabunwa. He declared for the presidential race quite early, precisely in November 2021. Analysts say he may have entered the race on the strength of the agitation for power to be ceded to the southeast region in 2023. But he is not known to have done much beyond his zone to advance his presidential aspiration. To many observers of the politics of the opposition party, the businessman turned politician is not likely to make much impact at the primary election.