United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc will continue to support and invest in African businesses for growth and development of the continent, its Deputy Managing Director, Oliver Alawuba, has said. He spoke yesterday during the UBA Africa Conversations 2022 in Lagos with the theme:  “The importance of reflecting our African culture In global success stories”. He said this year’s Africa Day was in commemoration of African unity. “UBA has invested massively in Africa, to make the continent grow and develop. We are celebrating African Day. Unity is important in Africa and unity is in our name. We want to deliver a better Africa to the world,” he said, adding that the bank’s focus has always been on driving investments into Africa, through conversations. Legendary African musician and songwriter, Youssou Madjiguène Ndour, in his keynote address, harped on the need for collaboration to boost the continent’s fortunes. “Young people in Africa have a lot of questions and we have to listen to them and see how together we can be a solution for Africa. We need to understand that there is a lot to do. Together we can make it,” Ndour said.   Fed Govt expects Dangote Refinery to start Q1, 2023     Fed Govt okays tax reliefs, other incentives for tech…     GDP’s 3.11% Q1 growth driven by trade, telecoms   The Namibian High Commissioner to Nigeria, Ambassador Humphrey Desmond Geiseb, talked about how globalisation has been good for Africa. He said, “Of course, there are still some gaps, there are still a lot of things about Africa that is not known, and I believe that culture and Arts can help to get it right for us.” He added that UBA’s foray as an African bank into the United States is a testament to this fact. Former Commissioner for Tourism, Lagos State, Steve Ayorinde who also sat on the panel, pointed out that the liberalisation of the media and digital content, is helping to improve the African narrative. “As Africans, we are at the point where no one denigrates the African culture anymore. Indeed there is still a gap, but we are bridging that gap,” he said. African Movie Academy Award Winning Ghanaian actress, Lydia Forson, who appreciated UBA’s contribution towards changing the African narrative, spoke on how the African culture is more accepted around the world. “It is great to see a bank like UBA being intentional about promoting Africa. Now, the world gets to see more of us, because, we have started to tell our own stories’. On his part, a young talented fashion designer, Kenneth Ize, said the continent holds a lot of potential that we are yet to tap into. “Africa is our home, our culture, and we have to do everything to preserve our culture,” he said. The UBA Africa Conversations was established in May 2019 as an initiative in a series of celebrations for Africa Day. The conversations provide a platform for African and global audiences to connect with global thought leaders both in the private and public sectors, on their African journey, in a quest to change the narrative on Africa from desolate to successful.