BUA Cement Plc located in Sokoto in Nigeria’s North West region, has created about 10,000 in direct and indirect jobs so far, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has said. Mohammed, who was in Sokoto yesterday in continuation of his tour of public and private sector projects across the country, praised the Chairman of BUA Group, Alhaji Abdul Samad Rabiu, “for his undying belief in Nigeria which he has demonstrated through the company’s massive investments in Nigeria.” There is no better indication of BUA’s support for the government’s economic diversification and job creation agenda, than his engagements in several projects especially those that are impacting positively on the lives of our people, he said. Also speaking during minister’s tour, the Managing Director, BUA Cement, Sokoto, Yusuf H. Binji, gave the hint as to why there’s rising price of cement in Nigeria, He said the interplay of demand and supply was largely responsible for higher cement prices in Nigeria than the West African coast, such as Ghana. He said whenever the cement production capacity in Nigeria moves up with expansion of existing production facilities through the possible entry of new entrants leading to increased output and supply to match demand, prices would start to moderate and eventually start to drop In agreement with Bingi’s explanation, the minister said governments policies were already attuned to achieve increased output in the cement production sector.   ExxonMobil reinstates staff     Lagos to dislodge all illegal slaughter slabs     Customs issues 14-day ultimatum to companies to pay excise…   Among others, he listed the Dangote Petroleum Refinery and Petrochemicals as well as the Dangote Fertilizer in Lagos, among others as projects that have benefited from the conducive business environment created by the President Muhammadu Buhari administration driven by the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC), which he said has implemented over 150 reforms since 2016. He listed the ban on importation of cement, government’s divestment from the cement industry, as well as the backward integration policy.as some of the measures that have assisted businesses to flourish and that have aided BUA Cement to record about 300 per cent increase in production between 2015 and now. BUA Cement growth trajectory, he said climbed from 3.5 million Tonnes per annum in 2015 to 11 million tonnes per annum as of today. He said the sokoto plant is operating at over 90 per cent of installed capacity, saying because of its location, which is just 100 kilometers to Niger Republic, the plant exports to Niger and Burkina Faso, thereby earning Nigeria the much needed forex. Mohammed and Bingi alluded to the special feature of the BUA Sokoto Cement plant, saying it is one of the most modern cement plants anywhere. “It has gas analyzers used in regulating carbon emissions released into the atmosphere; air purifying mechanisms set up to enhance the quality of air released from the cement manufacturing process. In fact, the plant has filters capable of capturing 99.9 per cent of dust in order to make the environment healthy and conducive for the workers and customers alike. The plant is the first cement plant in Nigeria to use Liquefied Natural Gas to generate 50Megawatts of power, thereby replacing coal in its kiln. This has made the plant environmentally friendly to also curb climate change,” they said. In 2020, BUA Group consolidated its cement operations and listed BUA Cement Plc on the Nigerian Stock Exchange with a total combined installed capacity of 8 million tonnes per annum and a market capitalization of N2.5 trillion, making it the second largest cement producer in Nigeria.