A member of  the 10-man interim management committee entrusted  to oversee the beleaguered Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF), veteran coach Aderemi Adewunmi , believed  the sport  would get back its fillip  despite  the federal government ‘s two-year withdrawal  of basketball from international competitions. The former player  said   the protracted leadership crisis within the rank and file of Nigerian basketball   has torn the fabrics of the  game  at the domestic level hence the Federal Government  through the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development  , has taken  the right step in order to restore sanity into the game. He decried  the abject neglect of the domestic  basketball  by successive NBBF board, adding  players and coaches  were left  in quandary  for lack of competitions  for years. “The current problem is simple: the local basketball has been abandoned  for the past five to six years  whereas  we have players and coaches that are employed by different clubs  but they are just roaming  the streets  because  there’s no competition to engage them,” noted Adewunmi who  coached  First Bank Women’s team for almost two decades. If we check, there are only one or two women’s team  that are still paying players  full or half salaries  and we have people just fighting over international competitions at the detriment of the local basketball.”   Arsenal intensifies  bid  for super-hot Osimhen     Uzoho dismisses snubbing Super Eagles     ‘Bazooka’ Bassey gets £25m price tag   Adewunmi  said  the task before the Interim Management Board  was to ensure  that  basketball is restructured well on the home front  so that the country can be able to export  more talents  abroad  as was in the case in the past. “ Frankly, I believe we (interim Management Board) can get this job done in six months  and even one year; then we the ministry can tell  the President that we have now organised our basketball  and then return to international competitions,” he said. Adewunmi who  is currently attached to MFM Women’s  Basketball Team, said he  was ready to contribute his  best, adding the Interim management Committee would carry along all basketball stakeholders in order to chart a new course  for Nigerian basketball. “ For me, it’s not going to be  difficult because I’ve been involved  with basketball  in the last  26 years and I have been involved generally with Nigerian basketball  for almost  30  years  before I even became a professional coach, “ Adewunmi, popularly called Owolo ,noted.“ I’m grateful for the opportunity to come and serve my country again in my own little capacity. “I’m going to do my best and be dedicated to the job  with all  honesty  and loyal to the people who appointed me to do this job; and at the end of the day  Nigerians will be very happy,” Adewunmi added in  the interview with Lagos-based Sports Radio, Brila FM.