Starting a new business can be challenging, especially for someone who is venturing into business for the first time. Challenges ranging from finance, time balance, customer service, reputation and many more can be draining that might wants to make one to give up. To avoid these aforementioned challenges, here are seven tips for successful business startups: * Get a mentor Getting a mentor is very paramount. The importance cannot be overemphasized as this will enable one to get ahead of others in the business. A mentor will serve as a guard in the business voyage. * Draft a business plan As much as setting goals is important, it’s pertinent to set achievable goals. For a successful business owner, a business plan is crucial. Having a plan enables one to work towards it * Target your customers Knowing what customers need contributes to business growth. A business starter should carry a thorough survey of what exactly the customers preferred. Having done that, improve on the service you render to them.   Why we adopted Holding Company Structure, by Access Bank     Govt okays N375b export grant     LASAA releases guidelines for political campaigns   * Observe your competitors Competition sometimes contributes to growth. Observe business owners that align with yours. Don’t be threatened to grow. Work on what will make your brand more distinctive and customers’ demands. * Finance management This is the life-wire of every business. If you don’t want your business to end abruptly, there is a need to manage and control your earnings. Do not spend more than your income. * Leverage on social media As the world evolves with technology, a serious-minded business starter should likewise evolve. Social media is another medium to thrive in business. Put your brands out on social media for numerous people to see. Money can be made legitimately on these platforms too, be it WhatsApp, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, TikTok, YouTube, and many more * Network To ensure sustainability in business, there is the need to network. It put your brand to a larger people. Wherever you go, put your brands forward. Don’t go mum amidst people as regards your business. Be quick to introduce yourself and what you do.