It is an immutable fact that the Anioma people in Delta State are Igbo, including the Ikwerre of Rivers State and all other groups with Igbo ancestry. There are incontrovertible, historical, cultural, cum legal documents, etc. to defend this assertion, despite denials by a few. A man’s ancestry defines his origin. The highest socio-cultural, corporate body of the Igbo, registered in Corporate Affairs Commission is Ohanaeze Ndigbo. The Anioma area, etc. is recognised as Igbo constitutionally in Ohanaeze. This was why the late Ogwashi-Uku born Amb. Ralph Uwaechue was elected president general of Ohanaeze when by zoning as enshrined in its constitution, it was Anioma turn to produce the president-general; also the late Asaba born Col. ‘Hannibal’ Achuzia was secretary-general at a time. Besides, other Anioma sons and daughters, including the late Prof Tony Arinze (Ohanaeze  president  for  University of Port Harcourt chapter) have held and are holding top positions in Ohanaeze as authentic Ndigbo. Lady Madam ‘Rita’ Daniels, our Nollywood actress of note and woman leader of Ohanaeze, from Anioma, also falls into this category. At the formation of Ohanaeze, in a meeting at the late Sir Akanu Ibiam’s Enugu home, Anioma’s foremost political leader, the late Osadebey was in the meeting representing Ndi Anioma as one Igbo. Osadebey as one Igbo was premier of Midwest Region while Akanu Ibiam was premier of Eastern region. At the Ahajioku lecture series, an intellectual festival showcasing the best of Igbo scholars – eg. Achebe, Afikpo,  Nwabueze, Okigbo, etc. two Anioma sons, coincidentally Ndi Igbuzo, was privileged to deliver lectures at the gathering of Igbo intellectuals. The late sages; Prof Angulu Onwuejeogwu, renowned anthropologist, and Prof Nnolue Emenanjo, renowned linguist, delivered the annual Ahajioku lectures in 1987 & 2001 as authentic Ndigbo; an acknowledgment of ‘Anioma Igbonness’ even by the erudite, critical and ‘’all-knowing, best brains of the Igbo race and civilisation” These facts are incontrovertible and historical despite denials by some revisionist historians.   Kano 2023: As Governor Ganduje mulls successor…     Power, merit and Nigerian leadership choices     Wike: A lesson in visionary leadership   Only a few days ago – the traditional ruler of Owa in Ika North East, Dr. Emmanuel Efeizomor hosted the ruler of Nri in Anambra State at his Owa palace, and during the parley, he traced the origin of his people to Nri, as indeed other Anioma communities have traced their ancestry to Igboland. The fact of Anioma Igbo status was equally supported by works of historical linguistics, courtesy of the authoritative well-researched works of the late Prof Kay Williamson via, for instance, her 1987 University of Port Harcourt Convocation Inaugural lectures (I witnessed this lecture as a student in UNIPORT). Prof Williamson posited: “From the study of historical linguistics, we learn that the enormous complexity of Nigeria’s languages has developed from a small number of original proto-languages, and thus that below the surface differences lie old and deep-seated similarities which point to common origins. As the map categorising the Igboid language group by Prof Williamson in this lecture (Blench) included the Anioma, of Delta North across the River Niger west of Anambra State. The works of Prof Emenanjo regarded as the leading Igbo linguist of repute and many Anioma linguists corroborate the fact that Anioma Igbo speak a ’sub-dialect of Igbo’ with some minor technical variations, in Ika & Ukwuani dialects. This is scholarly attested to by Ndokwa scholar, Ejimofor, and another lady scholar from the Ika , as indeed the outstanding work of the late Ika playwright, Prof Ukala, denoting names in Ika, which appears to support this linguistic approach also. Based on these facts, despite denials by some Anioma sons due to modernisation crisis of identity flaws, the fear of the negative effect of being labelled rebels during the Biafran war and its after-effects, the case of  the late  Prof  Kunirun Osia, a super minority Anioma son, whose ancestors migrated from Yoruba, which influenced his judgment to deny Anioma Igboness; Ndi Anioma are factually an Igbo race, the few instances of Ighala, Benin, Yoruba Urhobo/Isoko, etc. influences notwithstanding. The late Uwaechue was an elected Ohaneze’s president general, he was at a time the Biafran ambassador to France, therefore, any Anioma son or daughter  can, as an inalienable right, use the Igbo slot to become Nigeria’s president if it is his destiny. Elueme is an Abuja-based Anioma political analyst