A governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) in Ebonyi State, Dr. Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii (popularly known as AnyiChuks), has promised a new era of hope and prosperity for the people if given the chance to serve. Dr. Odii made the promise when he formally declared his intention to vie for the party’s ticket to contest next year’s governorship election. He said his declaration is in response to the collective desire of the people for authentic leadership to pilot the affairs of Ebonyi State. He said: “This is a mission to serve, and I make (add from original copy).” He said is running to avail the people of his vast experience in several fields. His words: “In my over 20 years in business, I have built successful companies with an investment portfolio from manufacturing, logistics, retail, construction, real estate, healthcare and agro-allied industries.” The aspirant said his philanthropic gestures have nothing to do with politics because he has been engaged in it long before he ventured into politics. He described it as an act of kindness which comes from a recognition that he should be a blessing to others.   ‘Only loyal, experienced aspirants deserve APC…     PDP should zone ticket to South, says Jane     Olafeso: ‘Many 2023 presidential aspirants are jesters’   He added: “Through the Ebele and Anyichuks Foundation, my wife and I have dedicated our lives and personal resources to bringing succour to the people of Ebonyi State. Using the little that God has blessed us with, we have made an impact on everything from homes to schools, scholarships to hospitals, and seed money for small businesses.” Dr Odii hails from Ebonyi South senatorial district; the same zone where the incumbent governor comes from. But, he does not see zoning as an impediment to his aspiration. He said his capacity should be considered above all other criteria. He said: “I am a bonafide indigene of Ebonyi and therefore qualified to contest for the governorship position. All the zones of the state have taken their turns and any zone can take the next shot, depending on the person that has the capacity. “I believe that my track record of success in resource management and wealth creation positions me well to deliver on the yearnings of our people. My vision to industrialize Ebonyi State begins with four tangible. First, we must restore the people’s confidence in government and establish a social contract that will form the basis of a new partnership. I am a firm believer in the democratic process, the rule of law, and a fair reward for hard work. “We must integrate and expand value chains across the state’s economy, from agriculture to industry to services; creating wealth through what we already have and growing our internally generated revenue. I am aware of the earning potential and multiplier effect that creative ideas can have. From music and art to theatre and fashion, the world has gone digital. We must not be left behind. Without security, all our visions and efforts will come to nothing. Therefore, our security approach in Ebonyi State ought to be proactive and technology-driven. I am prepared to put my best in defence of the interests of the people.” Dr. Odii’s declaration did come as a surprise to a lot of people as he has always stated his willingness to positively impact the lives of people in general; both at home and abroad so selflessly. He wants the people of Ebonyi to support his aspiration to transform the state into one that would be positively recognized around Nigeria and the world. He said: “I hereby invite our women, students, teachers, and our able farmers, as well as the youths to join me on this journey. Let us work together to actualize a new Ebonyi that we can be proud of.”