President of Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSH Association) UK – Nigeria Region Dr Aderemi Olusegun has promised to partner government and corporate organisations to create better awareness on public health and safety. According to him, oil pollution, gas explosion, flooding, inflammation, refuse dump, and air pollution are worrisome and needs urgent attention. He called on stakeholders to tackle the problems to safeguard the people. Olusegun spoke at a West Africa’s leading exhibition and conference for security, safety, fire and facility management sectors, organised by Securex West Africa at Landmark Centre in Lagos State. The three-day event focused on Nigeria’s security situation, highlighting cyber security, with sessions detailing how companies could prepare for a cyber emergency and protective measures. Executive Chairman of Phase 3 Telecoms Stanley Jegede spoke on Security of Critical Digital Infrastructure across industries and addressed Lagos Smart City initiatives and investment opportunities.   ‘Next president should come from South’     ‘Our votes are for Sanwo-Olu, Solaja’     Tinubu gets more support from North   Marketing and Operations Director of Afrocet Montgomery Jamie Pearson, who doubles as organiser of the event, said  Securex, ‘which is the largest international trade show in West Africa, is dedicated to commercial, homeland, cyber security, fire protection and safety exhibition’. Pearson said the exhibition ‘provides leading security solutions to companies and persons besides ensuring the security and safety of individuals, companies and organisations. “This year’s event hosts over 100 brands, making Securex West Africa 2022 the biggest edition to date, a testament to an industry bouncing back.” Olusegun  said government and corporate organisations have  obligations  to the  public by ensuring safety, good health and a conducive environment. He stressed that good governance would foster values to “assist corporate bodies and businesses to thrive and ensure employees safety”. OSH Association, according to Olusegun, is saddled “towards building a strong network of safety advocates and raising safety ambassadors…”