The National Pension Commission (PenCom) has called on Retirement Savings Account (RSA) holders to participate in the ongoing Data Recapture Exercise (DRE). In  a statement, its Head of Corporate Communication, Abdulqadir Dahiru, said: “The DRE is in compliance with the directive of the Federal Government that data- generating organisations should harmonise their databases with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC). It is also consistent with the need to have a credible database of all RSA holders in Nigeria. “Consequently, active contributors are advised to visit their PFAs and provide the documents to complete the data recapture. They include Staff Identity Card or any one of the following like driver’s licence or Permanent Voter’s Card or passport (mandatory for non-Nigerians); enrolment slip issued by NIMC; and birth certificate or sworn affidavit of age declaration.   I didn’t know he was dead, says pension collector     Praises trail PFAs recapitalisation     Pension complaints and solutions   “For retirees, who are either on programmed withdrawal or annuity, they are expected to present driver’s licence or Permanent Voter’s Card; or Passport (mandatory for non-Nigerians); enrolment slip issued by NIMC; and letter of retirement by the employer to the retiree.” It added: “RSA holders who have had a name change either their surnames or first names or after registration should present marriage certificate (only applicable in the case of marriage); newspaper publication for change of name; sworn affidavit; confirmation letter for change of name from employer, if still in employment.” “PFAs have been directed by PenCom to issue acknowledgement slips to RSA holders who submit complete documents for their data recapture. The RSA holders will be notified of the status of their data recapture within five working days of submission of documents. “Two agents, Payone Solution Systems Limited and Afritech Multi Concept Limited, have been engaged by PFAs to carry out the DRE consistent with PenCom’s approval. The agents are authorised to establish data recapture centres. RSA holders are allowed, therefore, to have their data recaptured at such centres by the agents if they are unable to visit the offices of their PFAs. RSAs can send enquiries or complaints on the data recapture exercise by e-mail to dre.complaints@pencom.gov.ng.”