Even though no political party dissociated itself from the pressure brought upon the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to extend the deadline for the conduct of primaries from June 3 to June 9, the extension will benefit the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) more than the other 17 parties. The businesslike Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) proceeded with its presidential primary yesterday. The tardy APC rescheduled its own to between June 6 and June 8, having entwined itself in the most labyrinthine schemes to undemocratically foist a candidate upon the party. Its inability to find a clear way to do that had embroiled the party in confusion, paralysis and near chaos. The party is rife with reports of a few influential and powerful outsiders working in league with party chairman and a coterie of insiders to deliver the ticket to former president Goodluck Jonathan. The PDP had no need for plots and intrigues. Hamstrung by a dearth of powerful and acceptable presidential aspirants from the South, despite the strong challenge mounted by Rivers State governor Nyesom Wike, it had long ago thrown its ticket open to all-comers. But in the back of their minds, they will feel satisfied should any of the many northern contestants clinch the ticket. They will be confident to market ex-vice president Atiku Abubakar or Sokoto governor Aminu Tambuwal, as they will feel pleased to sell ex-banker Mohammed HayatuDeen or ex-senate president Bukola Saraki, or even Bauchi governor Bala Mohammed. They are chastened by the strong Wike challenge, but they feel assured that they will get their northern candidate without seeming to be indifferent to southern campaigns for equity and inclusiveness. If they produce a northern candidate, they do not think it will be a disadvantage to them as it will be to the ruling APC in the coming presidential polls. They believe the public will understand that though Mr Wike is eminently qualified to be president, and would prove his mettle should he be elected, he is too hysterical and abrasive to be a convincing and competitive standard-bearer. The APC on the other hand will by next year have produced a two-term president, Muhammadu Buhari. They know in the back of their minds that they cannot justify another northern standard-bearer, but they are determined to gamble that imposition. To do this, they need time. The deadline extension is, therefore, for them. If their northern gambit proves too provocative, they seem prepared to drag the eminent stooge, Goodluck Jonathan, into the race, knowing he could only do one term before handing power back to them. Their reprehensible lust for power, rather than any anxiety about the fate of a distressed and collapsing Nigeria, propels them into the most heinous embrace and approbation of sectionalism and regionalism. Dr Jonathan has been cleared by a Bayelsa court to contest; he will be cleared by any court anyone might drag him to. He knows he will be a tool in the hands of a clique of parochial power mongers; but he is willing to damn and shred his conscience. He was a stooge before, and just like Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor Godwin Emefiele whose natural instinct is to bow the knee to any Baal, it is unlikely he can be anything else all his life and politics. The APC has grabbed the INEC extension with both hands. But they would have preferred three months extension to perfect their dishonourable plot to gift a national party, which they had hijacked at infancy with the active connivance of the president, to their former PDP enemy and helmsman. Ideology means nothing to them; honour means nothing to those who had profited immeasurably from the exertions of others; and the nascent pact of steel between the North and Southwest which could have been nurtured to fruition and to the advantage of Nigeria is being discarded, perhaps forever. Once this pact is broken, as party leaders seem foolishly and cavalierly bent on, it is doubtful whether it can ever be rebuilt. The Southwest has had a long history of distrusting caliphal politics and politicians, but one south-westerner broke the mould in 2015, risking regional emasculation and self-immolation to rekindle trust between the two regions. Now, that trust is in peril of being permanently shattered. No one will risk it in the future. The apolitical hijackers of the APC dictating the tune to the vacuous chairman of the ruling party are indifferent to the consequences. What is even more frightening is that they seem to have a backend route to involving INEC in their nefarious schemes. They got the electoral umpire to insinuate, by a written statement, the illegitimacy of the coup against ex-caretaker chairman Mai Mala Buni in early March. Now they have a deadline extension that profits the APC more than any other party. In 2015, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) did not lose that year’s presidential poll until it immersed itself in the most opprobrious politics ever, of hubris, of injustice, of extreme regionalism, and of predatory religiosity. It is strange how political parties, like individuals and nations, do not learn from history. Seven years after that unprecedented debacle, the All Progressives Congress (APC), the main beneficiary of PDP’s laxity and depredation, is dooming itself to repeat history. The party is hard of hearing, and there is little anyone can say to help it avoid disaster. Two years of the most intense and crazy political machinations to help certain individuals and the core North retain power, or at least retain control of the leash of power, are coming to a head. The signals were always there, as a matter of fact right from 2015, when an extreme and parochial cabal seized the levers of power and turned the newly inaugurated president into a befuddled accomplice. But the signals rose to a deafening pitch last few weeks when the ruling party, now firmly in the hands of an unconscionable clique, began a final countdown to subverting its own ethos and constitution as well as demolishing the wobbly surviving ramparts of democracy. While President Muhammadu Buhari railed against imposition and any ploy to undermine democracy, the implacable clique to whom he was and is still beholden foisted a chairman on the party, someone perplexed by the new but not altogether disagreeable role he was called upon to play. Then the clique exhumed its discredited and improbable scheme to reinstate into the presidency in 2023 Dr Jonathan, the dithering PDP president whom the party defeated by a convincing margin in 2015. The plot is unambiguous, and the motive disgraceful and demeaning. However, it is unlikely to succeed, not even by a mile. Dr Jonathan has coveted the reinstatement with open, undisguised and fanatical zeal. Having spent about six previous years in the highest office in the land grovelling and conceding everything to the core North, too afraid to be his own man, he is now eager to return to enact a replay of the total surrender and ideological abjuration he has spent his adult life mastering. His former aides are appalled, and the rest of the country mystified that someone of his standing could so enthusiastically lend himself to denying the South inclusion and justice. It is clear what his northern masterminds want, and they are unashamed to expose their obsession with power and reluctance to let go of it for anything more than four years. Why such sickening abdication and collusion do not trouble Dr Jonathan’s diminutive conscience is one of the unfathomable things about Fourth Republic politics. It is not entirely shocking that Dr Jonathan is unable to recognise the import of his abdication. However, what boggles the imagination is how he marries his grovelling with a sanctimonious analysis of Nigerian politics, particularly the ongoing primaries from which he surreptitiously hopes to gain some undue and unearthly advantage. Speaking in Abuja last Thursday during the public presentation of a book, “Political Party Governance,” written by a former Minister of State for Power, Dr. Mohammed Wakil, the former president berated the National Assembly for being self-centred and careless. Fuming, Dr Jonathan exuberantly described the primaries as an unmitigated failure. Said he: “In fact, these primaries are a mess.  If you know the standard practice, you will ask teachers here to score these primaries and they cannot get more than 25 per cent and you cannot use that process to elect the president. The process is already failed and it is not good for this country.” Does he imply that the unwholesome effort to foist him on the party as the consensus candidate will redeem the flaws in the primaries? Or is he setting the stage to legitimise the anomaly being cooked up in his favour by a select and unrepresentative group within the ruling party? But, here comes the quixotic Dr Jonathan, ever ready to submit to heresy and accommodate and validate shenanigans: “Yes, we will manage and move on, and I pray that good people should emerge; but we hope that what has happened this 2022 will not happen again in this country.” Well, presumably, when he is coronated a second (or third) time, he will advocate corrections his previous six years in office could neither contemplate nor dare to execute. It takes a man of his peculiar gifts and ethos to condemn sharing ‘rice and salt’ for votes while lauding with enthusiasm his disgraceful lobbying of the cabal to return him to office in mockery of the party on whose platform he previously presided over the nation.   Toying with open presidential tickets     Presidential primaries (3) Endorsements and conclusion     Presidential primaries (2) PDP, Atiku and others   Dr Jonathan’s simplicity and naivety are helped by the shamelessness and despicable disregard by the APC clique to forcefully act on behalf of the core North and to unsolicitedly represent the nation. The president has sadly remained undecided, unsure and unable to determine which direction to turn. His controversial shuffling has enabled all kinds of charlatans to seize the levers of power and throttle the nation. Indeed, at a key moment in the life of the nation, the president went on an African Union (AU) junket, either to minimise lobby as things fall apart or to hope that the pieces would fall into place automatically. It is unnatural. The pieces won’t fall into place, and the puzzle he has given wing will not resolve itself. The APC chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, is working with both the clique holding the APC by the jugular and the cabal that increasingly looks like the Chinese Gang of Four that seized power after the death of Mao Zedong in 1976. There is only one possible outcome from these crazy plots being executed by the clique and cabal. Once it is clear they will disallow a healthy and competitive presidential primary, but instead think of a controversial consensus geared towards the imposition of the despised Dr Jonathan, the APC will implode. There is no force on earth capable of keeping the party together or afloat, regardless of how many willing political accomplices they can rally to their side. Should the PDP hold a fairly reasonable and peaceful primary, they will gain from the APC implosion. But should the opposition also fall apart, then some other party, a third force born out of season, will be the gainer. The APC has spent almost two years ignoring salient developmental issues, preferring instead to manipulate power and influence in a flagrantly and recklessly regionalist manner, it is impossible that they will not be hoisted with their own petard. Assuming the APC clique can successfully impose Dr Jonathan on the party as the ‘consensus’ candidate – and it is hard to see them do this justly or transparently – it will be interesting to see how they will campaign for his election, having excoriated and humiliated him seven years ago. If they manage the fluency to do it, it is hard to see how the electorate will not wince in embarrassment at their impudence or repudiate them and their party at the next polls. More, it will be hard to imagine the real owners of the party, the seemingly ‘disenfranchised’, roll over and die without making a last-ditch effort to salvage their party or put the nose of the charlatans holding sway in the party out of joint.   Both in electing their chairman last year and picking a presidential standard-bearer yesterday, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) surprised many Nigerians by the jauntiness and panache with which they played their politics. Their chairman, picked last year by a consensus arrangement that bested competition, can hold his own anywhere. He is less complicated than the APC chairman picked through an imitation consensus that was clumsily executed. By a combination of factors, former vice president Atiku Abubakar was frontrunner going into the convention, with Rivers governor Nyesom Wike hard on his heels. Had Mr Wike managed to moderate his rhetoric and show restraint and sensitivity, his courage and quick-wittedness would have done for him what no regional or ethnic or religious advantage was capable of. He is rhetorically far more gifted than the stolid Mr Abubakar, and far more expansive, humorous, witty and agreeable, that is, when you are not on the receiving end of his coruscating remarks. This is his first attempt at the ticket, and he is doing it within the confines of a party he has stayed loyal and faithful to. Mr Abubakar, on the other hand, is a bird of passage. Not only has he flipped-flopped remorselessly, he has also jumped ship and party so many times that it would be surprising if he has not lost count. He is not, strictly speaking, ideological, nor even philosophical when he professes ideas and logic. Loyalty to a cause or party is controversial to him, being a man with indifferent and passive attachments, a man who as he ages begins to exude a hint of alarming and cadaveric stare when he addresses issues or curries votes. Yet, he is good at politicking and strategising. By Friday night, he looked good to take the ticket. If he does it without any complications, he will give the APC a run for their money, especially if, as is feared, the ruling party bungles their choice. If he gets the ticket, he will probably run on the same ticket with Mr Wike, or someone as flamboyant as him to enliven what will otherwise be a dull ticket, the only southern aspirant in the party strong enough to galvanise his geopolitical zone. Sokoto governor Aminu Tambuwal has strangely been the main surprise, surprise that he was unable to make the impact many believed he was capable of with his debonair looks, even-tempered rhetoric, and winsome and agreeable airs. Perhaps he lacked the financial resources to really drive his campaign, or that underneath his superficial charms hides a man subtly lethargic and soporific. Whatever the case, he seems sometimes tentative about salient issues, so extremely cautious about his politics, too intent on not making mistakes or displeasing powerful interest groups. His handling of the murder of Deborah Samuel, the 200-level College of Education student lynched by her fellow students and a motley crowd from outside the school on the grounds of blasphemy on May 12, was inexpert and unstatesmanlike. It is not clear that when confronted with crisis of monumental proportions, he can be expected to measure up. But above all, he has simply not roused the passion of delegates on a level that should make the ticket accessible to him. Unlike former senate president Bukola Saraki hobbled by geography and undistinguishing ideas and rhetoric, Mr Tambuwal had enormous but unharnessed chance to take the ticket. Do not rule him out in future if APC picks a southern candidate and wins the presidency for eight years. The PDP is not expected to experience any difficulty in picking their candidate. They will do it, probably with aplomb; and they will have the honour, as they did when they picked their chairman, to set the pace for their undeserving antagonist, the ruling APC. What they do next with the gift from heaven is left to them.