All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential apsirant, Senator Godswill Akpabio, has said that he would consolidate achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration if elected. Akpabio, who was addressing Anambra, Ebonyi and Enugu APC delegates in Enugu at the weekend, also declared that he would emerge the candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC). He said he joined the presidential race to win the general election in 2023 and provide good governance for the natuon. Akpabio, a former Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, said: “We have only two Presidential aspirants in APC and they are Akpabio and others because I am not only in the race but in the race to win and I have faith that I will win because Godswill will be done in 2023 and I will win!” He promised never to disappoint Nigerians, particularly the people of Southeast, who he addressed as in-laws.   2023: Lawan woos Jigawa delegates ahead of party’s primary     2023: Tension in Ondo APC ahead of party primaries     Ebonyi: Who will resolve zoning conflict?   “Today, I present myself to you as a detribalised leader who loves Nigeria and ready to carry everybody along irrespective of religion and ethnic differences,” he said He also vowed to tackle the security situation, particularly in the Southeast, North East and North West regions if elected. “I know the pains of the people of Southeast and we are ready to address all the injustices that have led to the agitation in the region. “As of today South south is the safest region due to our commitments to make the people happy and we will repeat what we did in South south also in Southeast by assuring that justice is done in this region”. Akpabio further promised to revitalise the economy and create jobs for teeming youths. “Our youths are engaged in all forms of criminal activities today due to lack of jobs but I want to assure that job creation will be done as we are here to deliver good governance to the people “I want to assure that I will provide infrastructures and fulfill all our promises. I will not promise and fail as I will work with all Nigerians to develop Nigeria,” he assured