Delegates of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Bauch State have endorsed the presidential bid of the party’s national leader and aspirant, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. He got massive support when majority of the delegates loyal to the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, who is the leader of the party at the State, unanimously assured him of support ahead of the party’s presidential primaries slated for May 30. Bauchi APC chairman, Babayo Misau, told Tinubu: “It’s only traditional that you come to Bauchi but even if you don’t come to Bauchi, all the votes of the delegates are yours” Tinubu was accompanied by former Speaker, House of Representatives Yakubu Dogara; former Borno Governor Kashim Shettima; former TetFund Chairman Kashim Imam, and former presidential aide ‘ Ya’u Darazo. He was hosted at the Hazibal Suites located in the State capital on Wednesday night. Dogara asked those in support of Tinubu’s ambition to raise their hands, which the delegates did eagerly.   After Buhari’s tenure, I’ll become a farmer —…     US queries Nigeria’s child labour protection efforts     BREAKING: Buhari off to Abu Dhabi for two-day visit   “No other presidential aspirant has come to Bauchi and witness this type of reception from the delegates,” Dogara said. Tinubu, while appreciating the delegates, said he’ has demonstrated capacity and brilliance in governance while serving Lagos Governor. According to him, his priority is changing Nigeria, reducing the number of out-of-school children and ensuring adequate security in the country. He said: ‘ I’m not like the rest of them. I’m a serious-minded man and those who must have known Lagos for years will testify that it’s a different Nation within a country. “To all of you, I don’t have to sell myself too. I have very good name recognition.I brought the party together to be one united party. “We are not poor in Nigeria. By all means, we can bring prosperity to Nigeria. You know me, I don’t break promises. I reward talents, our reward system for hard work will change, you will participate in the government, you will take the benefit of your labour. You will be part of our success so lets work together.” He advised aggrieved members of the party to sheath their sword and embrace unity, adding it will pave way for the party’s victory in 2023 elections.