His story, though familiar, is still potent. A high-flyer as a student but for a year, he has nothing of a meaningful job. His name is Abdulmalik Bashir. He graduated in first class at the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) in Zaria, in water resources and environmental engineering. He whiles away his time at a construction firm, as he says, to avoid boredom. This is a contrast to a time in this country that scholars like Bashir were spoilt for choice. Big corporations sent scouts to headhunt students of especial talent and potential, and persons like Bashir with a first class would be the first choice. It is a measure of the decay of the times and the poor management of the nation’s affairs that a first-class student would even have to cry on the pages of newspapers and, even at that, his story would fail to shock. And it is not as if some graduates still do not land plum jobs today, rare as they are. But the ones who get the jobs, whether in special government services or top-notch or blue-chip firms, are often children of the elite, who may be politicians, top bureaucrats or business executives, and the children school not in ABU like Bashir. They did not have to scrounge for a living to graduate in Ivy League colleges in the United States or top British institutions like Oxford, Cambridge or Imperial College. They ride in luxury and are assured jobs here without struggle. Yet the unemployment profile of the country, even for those with less stellar performances is grim, including those without university degrees. It is 35.5 percent in 2022. For all the damage to the economy, few students of the poor have a chance to show their merit. A class divide has exposed the injustice of the Nigerian state. With his degree in water resources and environmental engineering, the state of the country is ripe for his talent and initiative. Most of our citizens have no access to clean water, and this is borne out of the prevalence of water-borne diseases. That is, those who have any access to water. Lack of water has also imposed its own raft of infections.   Drifting towards anarchy     New anti-terrorism law     Deborah Samuel   He could also work in the oil field where exploration, drilling and distribution could challenge Bashir’s expertise. But nothing of an opportunity is looking his way. Bashir said he might have looked into going into business to test his acumen as an entrepreneur. But he lacks seed money. That he even graduated is something of a miracle. He cruised through primary and secondary education because his mother was healthy and fruitful and his father, a primary school teacher, could eke out some funds for him. But his narrative in ABU was different. His father was no longer getting his salaries as a teacher and his mother had been crippled with a stroke. Neither could provide anymore and he had to beg his way through school, sometimes fruitful enough in that adventure to send some money home for his parents. In their reversal of fortune, there was a reversal of roles without reversing their fortunes. It is also noteworthy that his siblings could not rise as he did to obtain a higher degree because of their desperate economy. It is little wonder that we have young men and women who no longer see their future in their fatherland. Whether to the United States or Canada when not in the United Kingdom, they are leaving. Not long ago, Saudi Arabia sent head-hunters to cart away high-prized medical doctors. Bashir is a metaphor for a broken country.