There is uneasy calm in the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Niger State over alleged change in the delegates lists for the primaries. The aspirants and stakeholders alleged the delegates list earlier submitted to INEC has been tampered with. The change, they alleged, includes the lists of the Governorship, the Senatorial, House of Representatives and Assembly delegates. The Nation was shown two different delegate lists where some were cleaned off compared to the one reportedly submitted to the INEC. Sources claimed the tampering was carried out by party executives to favour some of the aspirants and impose them as the flag bearers. A party stakeholder from Niger North Senatorial District, who spoke with our correspondent on the condition of anonymity, said the delegates list from Agwara, Rijau and Kontagora was heavily tempered with. They alleged the development was reportedly to favour Niger Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, who is contesting for the senatorial ticket.   Controversies trail Ogun PDP primary elections     Ondo minority leader loses at PDP primary     2023: Ministers taking Buhari for granted – Alkali   The stakeholders threatened fire and brimstone, saying they will not allow the alleged criminal manipulation of the delegates list by the party. The agitators said if there is any observation to this effect, they will disrupt the primaries in the State. One of the governorship aspirants, Alhaji Mohammed Bago, during a visit to the APC party chairman last week, called on the party chairman to ensure the original delegates list was used. He was said to have told the chairman to fear God and let the right thing be done. The stakeholders and aspirants demanded publication of the comprehensive delegates list at the APC party Secretariat and other important places to end the delegates list lacuna. They insisted that delegates must be known by aspirants and delegates as they urged the Niger APC executives to ensure justice was done. Efforts to get the position of the APC chairman and to Publicity Secretary failed. Calls to them were unanswered. They were yet to respond to text messages too.