Fifty-four large ships were lost worldwide last year with the total losses down by 57 per cent over past decade, a Safety & Shipping Review by marine insurer, Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE’s (AGCS), has shown. The review showed that South China, Indochina, Indonesia, and the Philippines top loss location. The Arabian Gulf saw a significant increase in losses to rank second. British Isles sees most shipping incidents, among others.   FBS Re generates N7.9b premium in first year     Insurance contribution to GDP very low, says Minister     NIMASA invests over N150b to end war risk insurance on…   Global Head of Marine Risk Consulting at AGCS, Captain Rahul Khanna said: “The international shipping industry is responsible for the carriage of around 90 per cent of world trade, so vessel safety is critical. The sector continued its long-term positive safety trend over the past year, but Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the growing number of costly issues involving larger vessels, crew and port congestion challenges resulting from the shipping boom, and managing challenging decarbonisation targets, means there is no room for complacency. The shipping sector has demonstrated tremendous resilience through stormy seas in recent years, as evidenced by the boom we see in several parts of the industry. “Total losses are at record lows – around 50 to 75 a year over the last four years compared with 200+ annually in the 1990s. However, the tragic situation in Ukraine has caused widespread disruption in the Black Sea and elsewhere, exacerbating ongoing supply chain, port congestion, and crew crisis issues caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. At the same time, some of the industry’s responses to the shipping boom, such as changing the use of, or extending the working life of, vessels also raise warning flags. Meanwhile, the increasing number of problems posed by large vessels, such as fires, groundings and complex salvage operations, continue to challenge ship owners and their crews.” “The annual AGCS study analyzes reported shipping losses and casualties (incidents) over 100 gross tons. During 2021, 54 total losses of vessels were reported globally, compared with 65 a year earlier. This represents a 57% decline over 10 years (127 in 2012), while during the early 1990s the global fleet was losing 200+ vessels a year. The 2021 loss total is made more impressive by the fact that there are an estimated 130,000 ships in the global fleet today, compared with some 80,000 30 years ago. Such progress reflects the increased focus on safety measures over time through training and safety programs, improved ship design, technology and regulation”, he added.