Former Secretary to Ekiti State Government, Dr Modupe Alade, has dismissed insinuations that she has parted ways with former Governor Ayo Fayose. Mrs Alade spoke to reporters in Ifaki-Ekiti, at the close of burial of her Mother-In-Law, late Mrs Dorcas Abike Alade, who died on December 15, 2021 at the ripe age of 95. According to her, Fayose was her mentor, and would therefore remain loyal to him, having appointed her Secretary to the State Government (SSG) during his second term tenure as governor, after she retired as Permanent Secretary, State Public Service. She said the fact that her posters are not found dotting the streets and walls, seeking one political office or the other under the current political dispensation, also did not mean she has called it quit with politics because of anybody. She said: “I am still very much in politics, and a proud member of PDP for that matter. I have neither called it quit with PDP or Fayose or anybody for that matter. I still remain in the PDP till this time of speaking with you, so where is the crisis?   ‘My vision as lawmaker representing Amuwo Odofin’     Katagum, Bauchi South battle for APC governorship ticket     Challenges before next president, by Udom   “The only thing I think has happened, which I can not control, is that I am not  interested in seeking any elective office, and this is probably due to the civil service blood that is still flowing in me, even as a retired Permanent Secretary. “Though ideologies may differ some of the time, there is no crisis between me and ex-governor Fayose. I will tell you he remains my mentor, and I am still loyal to him. Do not forget that he was the one that appointed me SSG at a time.” Alade said her mother-in-law  would be greatly missed, as a woman whose love and care for all manner of people, especially her daughters-in-law. She recalled how the late Mrs Dorcas Alade imbibed in her the spirit of togetherness, submissiveness, kindness and benevolence, and assisted her in taking good care of her children in their early years. The former Ekiti SSG called on all single ladies and girls, to learn from her culture, so as to reduce incessant cases of divorce among couples in Nigeria.