Akwa Ibom State governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel, has joined those calling on the Federal Government to grant Lagos a special status among the 36 states of the federation. Like many others before him, the banker-turned-politician said, as a former federal capital for so long, and given the role that the state continues to play as the financial capital of the country, it deserves to be supported by all. Emmanuel, who spoke when he visited the state in continuation of his consultation with leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the quest to be the party’s flag bearer in the 2023 presidential election, said the state, being the commercial hub of the country, should be treated like its counterparts in other countries. In Cote d’Ivoire, Abidjan that served as the capital from 1933 to 1983 continues to maintain a pride of place in national affairs, given its prominent commercial status. Yamoussoukro may today be the administrative capital of the country, but Abidjan retains the appellation, “Paris of Africa”, and “Manhattan of West Africa” among the people. It is promoted and supported to project the country’s importance in the comity of nations. While the capital of Brazil has been moved to Brasilia, Rio de Janeiro as the former capital city until 1960 remains the international face of the country. It is even the more interesting that it enjoys national support despite being only the second most populous state, as Sao Paulo has almost double the population. But, everyone realises that the former capital is the home of tourism, fashion and industry, hence its importance in national affairs.   ‘No one should die from preventable diseases’     Is Nigeria’s 10.5m out-of-school children figure…     Jostling for 500,000 admission spaces in varsities begins…   Nigeria needs to take a cue from these countries and others around the world that have changed their capital cities. The shift of capital takes vitality from cities. This has not been realised in Nigeria where Lagos continues to play host to citizens from all parts of the country. The ports are in a part of the city and, given the centrality of the ports in Nigeria as an import-dependent country, the traffic jam there has adversely affected residents of Apapa where the ports are located. Infrastructure is inadequate for a city believed to have a population of about 20 million. A former commissioner for the environment in the state, Mr. Babatunde Adejare, puts the estimate of people who throng Lagos daily to settle at about 6,000. This continues to increase as the economy of the country regularly takes a dip. Thus, water supply, electricity for homes and businesses, state of the roads, employment, all remain serious challenges in the city because the resources cannot cope with the demand. When lawmakers at the National Assembly raised the matter, it was shot down by those either blinded by jealousy or ignorant of the reality of requirements for building a mega city in the 21st century. Public transportation is a peculiar major challenge as the mini-buses are inadequate for moving millions of residents around. This has led the state government to embark on the light rail project that is gulping billions of Naira. This is one load that should not be borne by the state only, especially as an attempt to introduce a metro line was truncated by the Federal Military Government in 1984. So much man-hour is lost daily to traffic snarl caused by the sheer number of vehicles on the roads. We commend the courage of Mr. Emmanuel for setting apart party differences to canvas special status for Lagos. Residents of the sprawling city should take up other aspirants on their plan for the state. The responsibility of taking care of Nigerians fleeing from other states to Lagos should not be left for the Lagos State government alone. Governor Emmanuel’s disposition could have been influenced by his cosmopolitan outlook, having lived and served as a top banker in the city. As a frontline governor, he has given Akwa Ibom State an example of strides in Uyo where his footprints are large. This vision of Lagos should be a requirement for the presidential contest in 2023 as a provincial mind is unsuitable for Nigeria in the modern era.