The book of Ecclesiastes teaches there is time for everything. Unfortunately, the sacked ministers in the government of President Muhammadu Buhari refused to heed that exhortation. They played humpty dumpty, sitting pretty in office while running for an elective post, and they had a great fall. President Buhari after much prevarication became a prophet of interpretation to them. With a little shove, he ran them out of his government, so they can run their partisan races. Some said the president was angry, when he prophesied. Perhaps, he may have seen them as greedy or potential spoilers for his party. If not for desperation, they ought to have seen the signs, in view of section 84(12) of Electoral Act 2022. But now, they have been set free, it is time to run their races, with their own spikes. We know they wanted to enjoy the speed from the crest of their appointed offices. They wanted a wind-aided race. One of them, Rotimi Amaechi, the former Minister of Transportation, desperately tried to turn running for elections into running on race tracks. He wanted to pull wool over the eyes of Nigerians. But the gimmick failed. Instead of receiving accolades for running aimlessly around the stadium, he received opprobrium for attempting to trick the public. He was reminded that if all that is required to win an election and be a good leader is the capacity to run on race tracks, the Okagbares of this world would win all the offices. Another political trickster is the governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele. He wants to eat his cake, and still have it in the oven. He wants to run for president, but is afraid to venture into the muddy terrain without his governor’s boots. He sought a court order to cover his sins, and when he was caught, instead of being remorseful, he said his accusers should suffer heart attack, that heart attack is good. May such goodness not come his way? But it is silly of Emefiele to want to run with the hare and hunt with the hounds. He wants to run as president, while cooing in the office of apex bank. What an abuse of privilege. A highlife maestro from my town, Mike Ejeagha, sang that one should be careful when a companion on a hunt in the woods, turns around to say that one’s leg is looking like that of an antelope. Such a person can kill remorselessly. To show how incendiary his malignant intention to run for election while remaining the governor of CBN is, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is reportedly reconsidering where to keep sensitive election materials, usually kept in the custody of the CBN. Many bystanders are already insinuating that he may have fingered past elections in favour of his political party, and all he could say is that those raising legitimate questions about his sense of propriety should suffer heart attack. A man with such an emotional imbalance should not near the presidency.   Nigeria’s future in the face of ASUU strike     Comical presidential aspirations     Tinubu: A leader for the season   And that is the man who has been in charge of our common patrimony for eight years. No wonder he turned to a Father Christmas with resources that do not belong to him. For those whom he thought would make him president, he gave access to as much of the resources put in his care as they want; while those who he disagrees with should wallow in policies that induce heart attack. Having shown his partisanship, it is time he is forced to run from the CBN. Despite all his gragra, the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami SAN, is actually a political coward. After boasting and buying cars for his campaign, he could not muster the courage to run the gubernatorial race. The way the former AGF flagrantly ignored the provisions of the law on gaining questionable benefits in the line of his duty befuddles this column. And yet the AGF is constitutionally presupposed to be the chief driver of the anti-corruption programme of the Buhari administration. But for what appears to be a last minute reality check, former President Goodluck Jonathan was almost ensnared to trade his honour for a pie in the sky. If he had agreed to run, those who called him clueless would have gained a confirmation, even in the eyes of his ardent supporters. How on earth he even considered running on APC platform is intriguing. If the foolish plan went through, those who ran a very excruciatingly damaging campaign against him in 2014/2015 would now turn around to tell people, that Jonathan is the best thing to happen since our flag independence. If truly Jonathan ever contemplated running the 2023 presidential race on the platform of APC, then he is as dumb as his enemies think of him. For this columnist, the only reason he could have prevaricated all this while should be to make those who abused him in the past eat a humble pie. For this column, the invitation to run as APC presidential candidate is like receiving a call from a known 419 person, asking one to send one’s bank pin number, so one’s account can be credited. Those who lied to Jonathan that President Buhari would stick out his neck to support his candidature if he agreed to run, must have been living in the moon in the past seven years. President Buhari would never do that; for how can he turn around to defend the material damage done to Jonathan’s reputation by the APC propaganda machine on his behalf, in the run up to 2015 general election. To do so, Buhari would have to admit that Jonathan was a better president than him. It is interesting that the controversial section 84(12) of Electoral Act 2022, has pushed the hand of Buhari to release his ministers who want to run for political offices to leave his cabinet. While I believe the provision is unfair and should be struck down by the court as unconstitutional, it has served to stifle the galling indiscipline amongst the present political office holders. It is the abuse of executive privileges, especially by governors that drove the legislators to raise that red flag. What each political party should do is to determine the number and type of political appointees that qualify as statutory delegates at party primaries, to starve the abusive tendency of executive governors who flood the delegates’ list with all manner of political appointees. Now that the knuckles are out, we will know those who truly have the balls to run for elections, and those egged on to play spoilers for serious contenders. Let those prepared to run in the primaries run, while the unprepared run for cover.