So many Nigerian music artistes have risen from low upbringing into becoming super stars and employers of labour. Some of these artistes were born and bred in areas called slums in and rose to stardom deapite hardship and environmental background. Daddy Showkey was born on August 4, 1970 to Isoko parents in Delta state and grew up in Ajegunle, Lagos State. He got his nickname through his grandmother’s elder sister’s son who was popularly known as Showboy way back. Showboy brought him up, so, he had to adopt the name “Showkid” as a child. But as he grew older, his friends changed it to “Showkey”. The “Galala King” was the first artist to start the Nigerian Dancehall style. Instead of using the Jamaican patois, Daddy Showkey decided to use Pidgin English for his music and invented a dance style that changed the Nigerian dancehall scene. Oniyide Azeez popularly known as Zinoleesky was born on November 21, 1999 in Agege, Lagos. He is a trailblazing artiste in Nigeria’s Street Pop music scene. The talented rapper, singer and songwriter is known professionally as Zinoleesky. He came to the limelight in 2017 after his freestyle rap videos went viral on the internet. He bagged a record deal with Marlian Music in 2019 and has released a commercial successful Extended Play titled Chrome. Habeeb Okikiola popularly known as Portable Omolalomi was born on March 12, 1994. He stayed many years in Sango, Ogun State with his parents and siblings. He had his primary and secondary education in Ogun State. He is also known in the street as son of Shaku Shaku, Street Problem and Wahala Musician. He has been into music for 10 years before his final break through, discovery and recognition by Olamide Baddo.   Wike, Bello, Fayemi, six other six Govs eyeing 2023…     Stop portraying IPOB and Nnamdi Kanu as heroes     Fayose’s son, aide, others win Ekiti tickets   Gbenga Adedeji popularly known as Olamide was born on March 15, 1989 in Bariga, Lagos State Olamide has two siblings, TemmyGold and Eniola Olamilekan (who is also known as DJ Enimoney). Olamide started his career when he released the debut single, “Eni Duro,” in 2010. In the same year, he performed at The Hip Hop World Awards. He studied mass communication at Tai Solarin University but dropped out due to financial problems. Patrick Nnaemeka Okorie popularly known as Patoranking was born on May 27, 1990. Born and raised in Ijegun-Egba Satellite Town, Patoranking hails from Onicha, Ebonyi State. He signed a record deal with K-Solo’s Igberaga Records in 2010, releasing “Up in D Club” under the outfit. Patoranking became a protégé of Dem Mama Records after collaborating with Timaya on his song “Alubarika”. On September 28 Patoranking released a song titled Abule one he released ahead of his album scheduled to be released later soon in 2020.  Oritse Femi, the third child of his mother, was born and raised in a polygamous family of 25 in Ajegunle. He hails from the Itsekiri tribe of North Warri, Delta State. He briefly attended Mayday Secondary School in Ikoyi and switched to Tolu Primary School in Ajegunle due to his parents’ not being able to maintain the high cost of schooling in the affluent neighborhood of Ikoyi. Inetimi Timaya Odon popularly known as Timaya was born on August 15, 1980 in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. He is the founder of DM Records Limited. His solo career began in 2005 with the release of “Dem Mama”, which also appeared on his debut album, True Story released the following year. His second album Gift and Grace was released in 2008.