Plateau Governor Simon Lalong and All Progressives Congress(APC) delegates have assured former Transport Minister Rotimi Amaechi of support at the party’s presidential primary. They spoke when Amaechi visited the State for support ahead of the primary slated for May 30. Amaechi said he has the competence and capacity to tackle the challenges of the nation, urging them to support his bid for the party’s presidential ticket. He said having served as two-term Speaker and Rivers Governor, Former Chairman of the Nigerian Governors Forum, Minister of Transport and former Chairman, Conference of Speakers in Nigeria, he has garnered enough experiences to lead the nation. He said his relationship with Plateau State runs deep as he has worked with major stakeholders over the years and promoted interests of the State particularly during the administration of Lalong with whom he shares close friendship. Amaechi assured the people of Plateau State that the security and development issues of the State will be given priority when he becomes President.   JUST IN: Protest in Abuja over council chairmen tenure…     Alleged blasphemy: Tambuwal lifts curfew, bans processions     Buhari appoints Adamu Tutuwa as new DG FIIRO   Lalong, while welcoming the presidential aspirant, said the time was ripe for him to harvest his investment in the State. Lalong said “Rt. Hon. Amaechi believed in us even when many did not have confidence in us and refused to support us. He stood by us and saw to our victory. Even at the Federal Executive Council, we always received the assistance of Amaechi who protected the interests of Plateau State because we had no voice from those that were supposed to represent us. “In fact, I am one Governor in Nigeria that has not been lucky with Ministers in the last 7 years. “We thank Rt. Hon. Amaechi who ensured that the Inland Container Depot, North Central HUB of the Shippers Council and the Port Harcourt-Maiduguri rail line passing through Jos were approved. Plateau APC Chairman Rufus Bature said Amaechi’s coming to the State was a mere formality because his good works have been registered in the minds of the people and delegates. In a session presided over by Speaker Yakubu Sanda, Majority leader of the Assembly, Hon. Naanlong Daniel, moved a motion the delegates adopt Amaechi as the aspirant for Plateau delegates. Hon. Baba Hassan seconded the motion, which was unanimously carried.