The Ogun Assembly has passed a resolution to limit the number of Revenue Generating Agents/Organisations in the transport industry to a maximum of three per sector. The lawmakers, during the plenary in Abeokuta on Thursday, said that the step would allow the government to streamline the collection process and avoid leakages. The assembly’s resolution came shortly after members’ submissions on the need to curb revenue leakages and guard against any act that could cause a breach of the peace in the state. Consequently, the Majority Leader, Yusuf Sherif (Ado-Odo Ota I), moved the motion for the passage of the resolution, seconded by Ganiyu Oyedeji (Ifo II). Earlier, Mr Oludaisi Elemide (Odeda) explained that the pruning the revenue agents in the transport sector was meant to instill sanity, with a view to ensuring a reformed ticketing system. Similarly, Mr Abayomi Fasuwa (Ijebu-North East) stated that the reduction in the number of revenue agents would curb the old practice, which often led to loss of revenue and created unnecessary rancour between the agents. Other lawmakers who contributed to the debate cited cases of sharp practices reported by government revenue agencies against some independent revenue agents.   Buhari lauds Umahi on quality projects in Ebonyi     Onitsha becoming ‘dead’ city, Soludo laments     No Igbo politician should run as vice-presidential candidate…   They submitted that designated agents should be empowered to ensure holistic revenue management. The lawmakers expressed concern about the proliferation of transport associations in the state. They implored the state government not to approve more than three agents for each transport sector — motorbikes, tricycles, taxis and minibus. The assembly stressed that accreditation must be done by the State Ministry of Transportation and in line with its regulations, to promote efficiency and effectiveness. In a related development, the 2022 Supplementary Appropriation Bill forwarded to the Assembly by Gov. Dapo Abiodun has scaled first reading. Mr Deji Adeyemo, the Clerk of the House, presented the first reading before the state lawmakers. The first reading followed the acknowledgment of the governor’s correspondence dated April 25. “This supplementary budget is in view of certain exigencies of government to re-invigorate funding of some key projects, especially in the infrastructure sector, which require urgent attention to sustain the gains made so far,” the letter read in part,”. (NAN)