In Ekiti local diction, it is commonly said that: “Omo ka ga, ose re a tirin”, meaning a child that will grow tall, his legs will be thin. Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji’s (BAO) unveiling of his manifesto on Tuesday 26th April 2022 was a scintillating signature combining years of initiation, interaction, idealization and integration in community engagement and governance. The mainstay occupation of the average Ekiti man and woman is farming. It is good to initiate this write up with an analogy of farming so that Ekitikete, home and abroad, could easily relate with this treatise. In preparing for farming activity, there is an input stage where the farmer has to get the size and location of his farmland, get his seedlings ready while awaiting favourable climate before commencing planting, and also acquire basic farm implements, such as cutlasses and hoes in readiness for action. This is the Input stage. Secondly, there is the Activity stage of clearing the land to size and specification, making heaps through hoeing, planting the seedlings, etc. Activity stage also includes nurturing, weeding, containing pests and combating pre – harvest diseases that may hamper or hinder harvest. Thirdly, there is the Output stage culminating in reaping the fruits. For instance, a farmer that plants seedlings of maize, will expect after the Input and Activity stages to get fruits of maize in abundance as a grain of maize seed could yield cobs of maize fruit depending on several factors. Output is not the final stage. The next stage is Outcome which is the immediate effect(s) of the harvest (Output). In this stage, the maize could be eaten, processed, dried, sold thus enhancing the financial viability of the farmer and supplying of input to local industries. It could also lead to export if specifically processed and packaged in case of abundant yield meeting local demands. Hence, foreign exchange earnings can come from this outcome thus improving the internally generated revenue of the state resulting in Impact stage of the Result Chain. The steps stated here is modern adaptation of Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning (MEL) that is beyond rhetoric! Periscopic Perceptions of the Pillars In the opening of this treatise, the analogy presented is intentional to drive home a point made by Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji (BAO) in the unveiling of his manifesto at the iconic Bishop Adetiloye Hall, Ado Ekiti on Tuesday, 26th April 2022. This writer was present as an ethnographic researcher, leadership strategist and follower. It is instructive to pontificate or pinpoint certain portions of his speech in these days of digital technology that reminds the writer or speaker years after writing or making a speech. How we need to be careful of what we say or write! Ab initio, Oyebanji squarely and simply stated thus: “This is not a politician’s usual promise to a voting public but a pledge from an Ekiti man to his people …” It is a truism that many politicians, not just in Ekiti, but all over Nigeria, are fond of making floundering and faltering promises to the followers. Oyebanji was clear that his was a pledge! This is “a binding promise or agreement” according to Merriam – Webster Online Dictionary. These are the seven pillars:   Why are northern elders this overly concerned with who…     Revisiting Nigeria’s political trajectory     Show of shame!   Recommendations and Conclusion These are laudable pillars as depicted aforementioned in this treatise. However, as this writer was taught at Harvard Business School, by Professor Robert Simons, in a module in Strategy Execution: “Strategy is important, but execution is everything.” In essence, that your strategy is well-crafted does not translate to a better outcome or results at the end of the day. It is therefore imperative to lay emphasis on breaking down these strategic pillars to actionable steps that will be tracked with key performance indicators (kpi) that are specific, measurable, achievable, realistic and time – bound (SMART). BAO should, as a matter of earnest, commit these strategic pillars to a ream of cerebral and sagacious men and women competent in each sector to harmonize his thoughts and condense them to simple, actionable, measurable and trackable steps that are time bound with crystal and clear-cut key performance indicators (kpi). Surmising it thus, in the words of erstwhile British Prime Minister, Winston Churchill: “However beautiful the strategy, you should occasionally look at the results.” Succinctly and saliently stated, it is vital to, first of all establish the baselines. What are baselines? The point the current administration will reach come October 2022 as Dr. John Kayode Fayemi once pontificated that his government would not suffer governance to go in reverse gear due to electioneering campaign. Hitherto, he has lived up to that billing! The team to be constituted should work in harmony with the present state actors henceforth to update record, establish and review baselines so as to hit the ground running as from October 2022 as BAO beats all other contenders in the race to Oke Ayoba. However, between now and then, there are lots of to be done in ensuring all party members in the state of the fountain of knowledge are fully mobilized not only to vote but to campaign and convince their friends and family members to vote for the APC that BAO is flying the flag in the June 18 election in Ekiti. Meanwhile, strategic actions culminating in canvassing, campaigning and convincing people to vote should be the mode of operation rather than noisy but fruitless campaigns that lead nowhere.