SPECIAL Adviser to Lagos State Governor on Urban Development, Honourable Ganiyu Adele Ayuba Esq (Mayor K.K), Chairman Igando-Ikotun Local Council Development Area, Comrade Lasisi Akinsanya, Oba Lasisi Gbadamosi Onigando of igando, Oba Onikotun and Oba Alakesan are among the top VIPs that will grace the final of the Iyk Madu Obi Ramadan Cup final. The grand finale of the grassroot football tournament between Peculiar FC and Bariga Professionals, and will be held on Sunday at the proposed palace ground (Sansan Field) Igando a suburb of Lagos State. Tournament Director, Prince Gbadamosi Adebola Sulaimon disclosed that Vice Chairman Igando-Ikotun LCDA, Hon Mojisola Badmus, Chief Iyk Madu Obi CEO of Evergreen Group, Mr. Malik Mohammed (CEO) Joju Oil & Gas LTD, All Special Assistants of the Council, Chief Akeem Dada Bale Oko Oke (Igando), Mr Moses Adebanjo Enitan, former Chairman Lagos State Referees Council, Elder David Akere (an Independent Oil Marketer) and Alhaja Abidemi Hamzat (sister to the Lagos State Deputy Governor) are among the top personalities also expected. Innocent Iheodia, Special Assistant on Youth and Sports Ikeja Local Government, Representatives from All Grassroots Football Association of Nigeria and that of Guinness and Mr. Fruts will also be present at the event.   Maracana hosts South West U-13 tourney     Simon, Sanusi set for silverware tonight     MÜLLER: Meet world’s most under-appreciated player   Both Peculiar FC and Bariga Professionals deserved to vie for the ultimate prize in the ‘Clash of Titans’ after respectively beating their semi-final opponents Super Accurate and Atidex FC last week. Peculiar FC became the first finalists after they put two goals past Super Accurate in a thrilling encounter. Both goals were scored in each half, with Etim taking home the Man of the Match award with his acrobatic opening goal to the delight of his huge fans who came to catch a glimpse of the game at Sansan Field. The second semi-final decided last Saturday, saw Bariga Professionals schooling Atidex FC whom they walloped 6-0 with Ajibade Suleiman take home the match ball after he bagged his second hat-trick of the tournament. Meanwhile Super Accurate and Atidex FC will lock horns in the losers final that will be held 24 hours before the final.