To say that Onitsha, the commercial city of Anambra State is living in its past glory is to affirm the obvious. A city acclaimed to have harbored the largest market in West Africa is now a shadow of itself leaves much to be desired. The same ancient city associated with the first Nigeria President and father of Nigeria nationalism, popularly known as Zik of Africa and Owelle of Onitsha, Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe is currently being linked with all manner of negative tendencies. Apart from the growing insecurity challenges occasioned by gunmen, armed robbery, hoodlums, miscreants and other criminalities that had held sway in the city over the years, illegal revenue collectors otherwise known as touts have virtually ran over the town, making lives unbearable for average motorists and commuters. Business and commercial activities have continued to wane as traders and investors who troop into the city on daily basis for all manner of transactions are now relocating to neighbouring states for the same purpose. Worse still are heavy presence of refuse heaps and stinking filled drains which have not only become eyesores in virtually all streets in the area, but constitute serious threats to the environment and health of the residents. Buildings blocking roads, drainages and waterways and preventing successful emptying of flood water into the Niger River are visible in almost all parts of the city. Despite several efforts by past administrations in battling these myriads of challenges, though, with certain minimal successes, Onitsha’s master plan has continued to experience distortion of various forms and shapes. But like the biblical Prophet Ezekiel, the incumbent Governor of the state, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo is very confident that the “Dry Bones Shall rise again.” Even before assumption of office, the governor did not keep anyone in the dark of his plan to restore the lost glory of the commercial city. He had promised to start work within Onitsha environs, precisely Okpoko, a sprawling slum, immediately after swearing in. He assured an 8-hour work in the area same day. Okpoko, a town with a densely population of over a million, is not just notorious for street urchins with very dangerous tendencies, but stricken with poverty. Roads, portable water, liveable homes are all lacking in the slum. Families live in one room makeshift houses, with either wood and tarpaulin, or wood and corrugated roofing sheets. Speaking on plan to change Anambra into a liveable city, with Okpoko to take the lead, Mr Joe Anatune, Head of Media of Soludo’s Media Office said: “On March 17, 2022, Ndi Anambra will embark on a tough but hugely fascinating and rewarding journey to a Liveable and Prosperous Smart Megacity as envisioned by Cee Cee Soludo who the people overwhelmingly elected as governor on November 6, 2021. “We alluringly christened the process of attaining this journey as The Great Transformation. The final outcome is that, firstly, Anambra will become irresistibly appealing to the world as the choice place to live, do business and relax. Furthermore, the 179 or so communities that make up Anambra State will be digitally connected to the ambitious sustainable development agenda of the incoming government. “Okpoko, a sprawling slum near Onitsha in Ogbaru Local Government Area will be the starting touch point of The Great Transformation with the planned facility visit of Soludo to the slum to launch its upgrading programme. Onitsha, which sadly wears the toga of the headquarters of air pollution in the world, will in quick succession receive the attention of the governor. “The new government, like any other government, will face the challenges of ensuring that the people are safe, healthy, gainfully employed, have access to clean water, breathe clean air, get access to functional and quality education and more. “Taking into account the local context and global trends, Soludo figures that the use of data and technology will be a more efficient and effective means of addressing the development imperatives of the state and improving the quality of life of the citizens. “This model offers better use of space, less traffic, cleaner air, and more efficient civic services, all of which help improve the quality of life. Also, using smart solutions enhances more career and economic opportunities as well as stronger links with community. So, when next you hear Soludo say that in the fully transformed Anambra, children born in the state may not have need to seek greener pastures elsewhere and those in the Diaspora will have all the incentives to return home, you would do well to take that assurance to the bank.” To walk the talk, the governor constituted a Waste Evacuation Committee headed by his Deputy, Dr Onyekachi Ibezim, to start the waste evacuation and drains de-silting in four council areas – Onitsha North and South, and Ogbaru and Idemili North local government areas of the state. Soludo and his entourage monitored the exercise from the Obiano Park, Upper Iweka areas of Onitsha South, through Fegge, Ochanja Market and Ochanja Roundabout, with excavators evacuating wastes from drains and dumps to various dumpsites. Addressing stakeholders, including traditional rulers, Presidents-General, women Presidents-General and community youth leaders across the state, recently, the governor described Onitsha as a “dead” city, pledging his preparedness to resurrect it. He said the meeting was part of his government efforts to continuously deepen civic engagements targeted at drumming home the initiatives and policy thrusts of his administration. He however stressed that his plan to make Anambra Dubai-Taiwan would require cooperation and sacrifice of all residents of the state. He said, “Today marks 49days we assumed office. This is the second time we’re calling this meeting to keep you abreast on our commitment in transforming the state. We’ll call you again in 100days. “Our first duty is to resurrect Onitsha. Onitsha must rise, being the Obi of Ndigbo. Almost all gutters in the city are all filled up. Distilling of Sakamori has commenced. All houses blocking the river must come down.   2023: Senatorial aspirant alleges harassment, cries to APC…     NAFDAC, NYSC sign MoU to engage corps members in all 774…     Kumuyi’s visit to address insecurity in Abia, says…   “The presence of touts has pursued many businessmen away from the town. It’s difficult to find where to park to shop. But we assure you that shopping in Onitsha will become a pleasurable experience soon.” The governor also renewed his vow in another meeting held in the commercial town with groups of landlords from Omagba Phases One and Two, GRA Onitsha Zone, Housing Estate, American Quarters, Trans-Nkisi, Fegge, Awada among many others. He explained that the visit to Onitsha was in line with the mantra of “be your brothers’ keeper’, to dialogue on how best to reclaim Onitsha, starting from the contributions of the landlords. Soludo stressed that everyone has one critical role or the other to play. He recalled that Onitsha was once reputed to be housing the largest market in West Africa, which is sadly no longer the case, as new businesses and investments are now tilting toward neighbouring states. He emphasized that a verifiable estimate shows that thirty-five to fourty percent of the productive assets in Onitsha are evacuating, noting that landlords would benefit the most from the engagement because the value of their assets will increase eventually. This, he noted, is the reality of the situation his administration committed to turn around into a smart megacity, as Onitsha has advanced into a metropolis. He added, “Until recently, Onitsha has been one of the biggest commercial cities in Africa, but the city is almost ‘dead’ as a result of the decadence that has set in. Onitsha, once reputed as the City in South Eastern Nigeria with the largest market in West Africa has lost that prominent position, as new businesses and investments are now moving to other neighbouring States. “Unfortunately, this has grossly affected the value of productive assets in the city. In developed world, cities are planned to include pedestrians’ walkways, provision of convenience in public spaces, provision of relaxation spots for people to relax and enjoy. “My administration will restore law and order as well as re-enact the Onitsha master plan, restore the Greater Onitsha water scheme, digitize lands and assets in Anambra State, among others.” On the on-going desilting of sakamori drainage, Soludo explained that there were buildings obstructing the free flow of flood water, adding that such illegal developers who were given two weeks of grace, risked demolition. He called on the landlords and stakeholders to support and cooperate with the government in its determination to restore Onitsha back to its past glory. “If Onitsha is resurrected, Anambra State will be unstoppable in terms of the immense economic gains that will accrue to the people and government. The ultimate goal is to make living and shopping in Onitsha a pleasurable experience for all. “No person in Anambra markets, roads and elsewhere will be allowed to collect money acruable to government as revenue. Such monies will paid directly into the government coffers. Every government policy must go down to the grassroots. Repairing Anambra will start from the communities, towns and villages. Reacting on security, Soludo called for assistance from youths of various communities on intelligence gathering, assuring them that their identity would be treated with utmost confidentiality. “Traditional Rulers and President Generals must take charge of their communities. You must re-examine and revamp your local vigilante to forestall further breakdown of low and order. “Culture of silence must stop. I’m sure you know the hoodlums and you must expose them on time before they strike. We must resurrect community participation and mobilize youths to take back our societies,” he stressed. Responding, landlords in Onitsha unanimously pledged their total support to the developmental policies of the Governor Soludo-led administration meant to reposition the state for the better. They also assured the governor of their cooperation in his mandate to implement the master plan of the city as he plans to rebuild Onitsha. Chairman, Fegge Landlords Association, Mr. Wilson Anyaoha while commending Soludo for the initiative, expressed the readiness of Fegge Landlords to key into the plan, just as he assured their their willingness to make contributions from their immediate environment. Secretary, Onitsha Metropolitan Residence Forum, Chief Bonbry Obi Okoye encouraged the governor to go ahead and remove any structure that might constitute hindrance to the realization of his vision, adding that he would not mind even if his house was affected. Chief Albert Ibekwe and Barrister Azubuike Anazor who also threw their weights behind the Governor’s plan to revive Onitsha and make it more livable and prosperous city, made few suggestions on how to tackle some issues confronting Onitsha which included how to decongest the city. Other landlords including, Mr. Harold Ekwerekwu and Sir Osondu Nnabugwu while thanking the Governor for the opportunity to interact with them, commended him for the steps he has already taken, especially with regards to making Onitsha clean and healthy, and promised to remain supportive of the Governor’s administration by paying their dues promptly. They outlined some of the challenges and suggested certain immediate and long term solutions such as construction of cemetery, government intervention at the Nkisi-Aroli, nipping of insecurity in the bud, dualization of GRA 3-3 road, social re-orientation, construction of flyover at Ogidi market, setting up of dedicated enforcement team, among others.