Like a virus, the unbridled activities of scammers and unlicensed operators in the financial space don’t seem to be abating. The financial services regulator, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) is equally unrelenting in its efforts aimed at taming their nefarious operations, writes Group Business Editor, SIMEON EBULU  Some Nigerians’ undying and unrestrained appetite for quick wealth, or rather the get rich quick syndrome, didn’t just start yesterday. It’s been on for as long as one can remember. In fact, the get rich-quick phenomenon has been there for all time. It’s what has led many unguided elements to engage in all manner of unimaginable and heinous crimes, including armed robbery, ritual killings, just name it, all in a bid to get rich. And quick too. To such people, the cliche that the end justifies the means holds sway. They engage and swallow it hook-line and sinker. No restraint whatever. But the trend has assumed a dangerous and far reaching proportion in recent times,  almost among all age groups, especially now with the growth of technology, coupled with the birth of the internet and the endless application of its many variables, including financial technology, better known as fintech. The cumulative impact of technology and its applications in its various spheres, have led to the creation and emergence of an army of end users going about manipulating the internet space, not for the good as it was intended, but now for the bad and the ugly dimensions  contrary to its intent and purpose. And this negative practice is manifesting more in the financial services sector. A group of faceless and unregistered goons have made it their ‘business’ albeit with criminal intent to subject the internet space to a playing field where unsuspecting and gullible persons, including Nigerians are lured with the sole aim of dispossessing them of their wealth, and over time clean up their net worth. Make no mistake, internet fraud is now more of a global enterprise than any local or country specific crime. This is a playing field that has no respect for boundaries, neither is it bound by space. It is both borderless and almost beyond control by any one country, or state. The one most engaged platform in the technology space used by fraudsters to pinch peoples’ financial pockets and savings is the fintech platform. It is addictive and susceptible to all manner of manipulations. Fintech applications when engaged altruistically, the results and attendant benefits are unassailable, but when the intent is otherwise, the outcomes are usually devastating. We only get to realise, or notice this untoward development  only after the deed would have been done, whether it be for good or evil. Either way, the effects speak volume depending on which side of the divide you are. For the victim the effect could be devastating and long lasting, but for the villain, it’s mission accomplished, he goes on the prowl again, surfing and searching for his next victim. In recent times, Fintech, the term used to describe any technology that delivers financial services through software, such as online banking, mobile payment apps and money transfers between financial institutions, corporate bodies and across trans-national and international borders for various settlements, appears to have been so compromised by fraudsters so much so that it has resulted in colossal financial losses, as against its many, far reaching benefits. And truly, nothing can be said to match the benefits of fintech when judiciously applied. The huge funding opportunities made available to fintech firms in Nigeria of recent, attest to the invaluable services being rendered by these new generation tech giants. Here in-country, we’ve seen the exploits of such firms as Paystack, Flutterwave and Systemspec that developed the Remita App which powers the Treasury Single Account (TSA) of the Federal Government. Fintech as a financial tool in streamlining payments and settlement on the one hand, and as a tool being surreptitiously employed by fraudsters in fleecing unsuspecting members of the public in their financial dealings cannot be overlooked. Fraudsters have overtime successfully marry financial instruments and using the growing social media outlets to wreak financial havoc on innocent and unsuspecting members of the public to deprive them access to their hard-earned currencies. To check the nefarious activities of these fraudsters masquerading as financial operators, which they are not, and end or at best reduce these disingenuous and un-ethical ways of earning a living by preying on others’ resources, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has, in its role as the financial services sector’s regulator, sounded a note of caution, warning unsuspecting Nigerians to beware and warry of these so-called financial providers who’ll go at great length to induce and deceive prospective customers with mouth-watering returns that cannot be matched by authorised and registered institutions and operators in the financial services playing field.   ExxonMobil reinstates staff     Lagos to dislodge all illegal slaughter slabs     Customs issues 14-day ultimatum to companies to pay excise…   But unfortunately, many against CBN’s advice to shun these impostors, have unwittingly fallen victims to such unauthorised schemes that falsely claim to offer up to 100 per cent returns, or more on investments. On the surface, these schemes appear credible, but its all a ruse, they thrive on deception and outright falsehood. Part of what these ponzi operators do is to lure investors with promises of huge returns. Those who dive in early would benefit because they would be paid from the pool of funds being contributed by more recent investors. Once the bait clicks, its just a matter of time before later-day investors fall victims, your money will develop wings and fly away when these so-called financiers disappear into thin air. Most, if not all of these firms operate mostly online with no physical office, or address. They exit the operating space the moment they succeed in receiving the investment sums from as many people as they possibly can scam. The Mavrodi Mondial Money (MMM), one of those wonder banks, or ponzi scheme is an example. At its prime, a lot of Nigerians believed and signed on to its dubious scheme because it was thought to be credible and a legitimate investment until it disappeared from the scene, but not before it pocketed an upward of between 15-20 billion naira of Nigerians’ hard earned cash. Other Ponzi schemes to which many Nigerians lost fortunes surfaced thereafter. They include the very popular Nospecto, Galaxy Transport and Famzhi Interbiz Limited, just to mention but a few. The CBN, as the financial sector’s regulator, has never stopped to play its supervisory and regulatory role regarding these impostors and fake operators in the nation’s financial playing field. Being not registered by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to offer any related financial service, nor licensed by the CBN, the regulator is largely constrained on what steps, or strategy to adopt to rein these elements. However, the bank has fallen back and engaged about the only option opened to it, which is to warn unsuspecting and would be victims of these wonder banks, to stay clear, adopting in the main the known legal palance of ‘Caveat Emptor,’ known everywhere as ‘buyer beware.’ Notwithstanding the absolute non contractual obligation binding the apex bank with the operations of these impostors, the CBN out of share concern, borne out of the need to protect the image and sanctity of the banking and financial sector’s avowed image, has continued to warn members of the public to stay clear of the operational path of these ponzi or conmen masquerading as some credible businessmen. The CBN has done this over and again in press statements and most recently through its Financial Services Regulation Coordinating Committee (FSRCC), advising and persuading Nigerians to stop dealing with such firms. The leadership of the apex bank has said this many times and very recently in a statement posted on its website said illegal financial operators  have continued to lure and defraud unsuspecting members of the public by offering extraordinary returns on investments as bait, describing the increasing activities of Illegal Financial Operators (IFOs) as worrisome and that it portends a grave risk to public confidence and the stability of the Nigerian financial system. It issued a cautionary note and sounded a warning through the FSRCC, urging the public to desist from dealing with illegal financial operators. “The general public is advised to refrain from dealing with unlicensed or illegal financial operators, who lure and defraud unsuspecting members of the public by offering extra-ordinary returns on investments as bait,” said, calling on members of the public to visit the websites of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and other relevant member agencies of the FSRCC to verify the registration and license status of such companies and schemes before investing in them. “You are also advised,” the bank said, “to report any individual or entities suspected to be involved in such nefarious activities to the law enforcement agencies.” pointing out that the financial regulatory agencies will continue to carry out all necessary due diligence before registering or licensing any operator under their regulatory purview. The CBN said agencies shall refer to relevant supervisory authorities for confirmation before finalising on any registration/licensing application. It encouraged member agencies to engage in regular sensitisation campaigns on the threats posed by the activities of illegal financial operators, and equally urged the general public to address further enquiries to the Director, Financial Policy and Regulation, Central Bank of Nigeria, and/or the Executive Commissioner, Legal and Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission. From the point of view of regulatory function and responsibility and corporate governance principles, this is the much the CBN can do. The onus largely rests on the public and those with unbridled and unrestrained appetite seeking to get rich quick to be mindful of the salient legal advice, ‘Caveat Emptor.’ Buyers Beware.