For long, stakeholders have complained of the high cost of doing business in the shipping industry. Now the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) has come to their rescue. Last week, it rolled out plans to tackle the issue by deploying more digital technologies and critical facilities at the seaports. NPA Managing Director Mohammed Bello-Koko, during a media parley in Lagos, last weekend, said the authority was set to deploy the port community system where every stakeholder is locked into one system for operations. What is digitalisation? Digital technologies help to change a business model and provide new revenue and value-producing opportunities. For ports to cope with changes in the global economy, meet growing demand and increase in throughput of cargo. The ports and their stakeholders will have to strike new agreements on collaboration and standardisation on big data, which, in turn, will make port computerisation easier to achieve. Digitalisation, in container handling, is considered a matter of the logistic chain, cloud and big data. While these are, undoubtedly, key aspects in digitalisation of container shipping, the system also transforms the processes and workers’roles within terminals, which has an impact on terminals’productivity. Digitalisation of quay impacts positively on processes and roles and contributes to increased productivity. Bello-Koko said the port community system would not affect the e-customs, adding that it would enhance trade facilitation and ease shipping processes. Bello-Koko also said the NPA was working hard to deploy Vessel Traffic Services (VTS) to monitor ship movements. VTS are shore-side systems which range from the provision of simple information messages to ships, such as position of other traffic or meteorological hazard warnings, to extensive management of traffic within a port or waterway. According to him, the NPA is partnering the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG), which is expected to help with the survey and deployment of the facility. “We should be able to have visibility without seeing the ship. We are blocking leakages and ensuring removal of manual process at the seaports. I will love to see our port fully automated. Automation is the backbone of our port and we must achieve this and implement it in the right manner. That is what the port community system is about,” he said. Too many people still go into the seaports in this era of digitalisation. This is the puzzle the NPA chief, wants the stakeholders, operators, security, government agencies and port users to solve. Bello-Koko said the port business could be conducted with digitalisation. A maritime lawyer, Mr Muhammed Oluwaseyi, noted that a non-contact port is the solution to many problems in the system. He listed these as delays, which lead to demurrage, diversion of money, corruption and revenue leakages. Oluwaseyi kicked against a situation where many people would converge on the seaports to transact businesses that could be done from the comfort of their homes and offices. Human contact, in this era of global digitalisation, Oluwaseyi said, is dangerous because it is non-efficient, causes delays and breeds corruption at the ports. “Most of the ports in the world are digitised. Nigeria cannot be an exception. We cannot have a multitude of people going into the ports every day; human contact in the ports is very dangerous. It is anti-efficiency and once there is human contact, there will be corruption and then delay “Some people don’t even have any business at the port, but you see them there.What are they doing? “Government agencies should be working with shipping companies and terminal operators to ensure they meet the deadline they set for the first quarter of this year, but we saw it was not feasible to attain 90 per cent digitilisation. Although digitilisation of the ports is a process in the making, we want this to happen as quickly as possible. Oluwaseyi added that digitilisation would make our ports more competitive, noting that the country had competitors in West and Central Africa sub-regions.  NPA needs to join digital revolution The time has come for the ports to join the digital revolution. Digitalisation opens the door for carriers to strengthen their direct relationships with end customers, further reducing their costs (vessel operation, and customer service), and pursue new revenue streams beyond traditional port services. NPA, stakeholders said, needs to ensure that terminal operators and other government agencies at port, apply digital technologies toward enhancing their commercial and operational activities. Box tracking, empty-container repositioning, document management, network design, and pricing are among the activities that must be digitalised. “Although the rewards of a digital transformation can be significant, so are the challenges to making it happen.To succeed, NPA must adopt a structured approach to defining a digital vision and integrating new technologies, capabilities, and mindsets into their traditional way of working. It is not too late to get started. The industry is still in the early stages of digitalisation, and most ports are yet to achieve significant progress. “Ports Authority that approaches a digital transformation with the right ambition, resources, and scale can leap to the forefront of adoption. With what is on ground, eight months can be used to achieve a step change in their digital capabilities that strengthens their competitive advantage …” said an importer, Felix Sunday  Threat from digital attackers   Pressure on APC governors over tickets for Senators, Reps     Wike: those who formed nPDP don’t deserve PDP ticket     Tambuwal, PDP Reps to Buhari: sign Bill now   Even as the economic challenges of the new normal persist, carriers face an increasing threat from digital attackers. A variety of players—including both traditional logistics players and new entrants—are adopting digital technology to provide seamless, end-to-end services. If these companies’ business models succeed, carriers run the risk of losing direct contact with some of their most profitable customers—primarily small and midsize freight forwarders and beneficial cargo owners (known as BCOs). In this scenario, the carrier’s role could be reduced to providing commoditised ocean freight services. One of the strongest threats is from players, Sunday said, are adopting digital technology as the basis for an asset-less business model that lets them compete with a much lower cost base. Recognising the opportunity, e-commerce giant Amazon has obtained a license to operate as an assetless cargo forwarder between China and the US. Startups are also gaining traction. For example, Flexport is a technology-based freight forwarder that, as of October 2017, had attracted more than $200 million in venture capital investment. Flexport is not alone in attracting venture capital. In the past six years, more than $3.3 billion has been invested in digital startups in the shipping and logistics sector. Fortunately, carriers have many opportunities to apply digital technology—not only to maintain their direct customer relationships with acceptable costs but also to improve their operations and grow their businesses. Seven digital trends have emerged, especially in the shipping industry. These trends are contributing to performance improvements across the full scope of carriers’ operations.  Obstacles So far, most carriers have failed to take a systematic approach to digital adoption. Manual intervention is still required for operations such as trimming during voyage, restowage, and documentation management. Network optimisation, empty-container repositioning, cargo routing, forecasting, and pricing are among the core processes that can be digitalised. However, most carriers still handle them in the traditional way, without systematically leveraging the power of advanced analytics and artificial intelligence (AI). For example, some carriers that have collected impressive volumes of data lack the skills or agile processes to generate insight and improvements.  Expectations Digitalisation is expected to cut the cost of doing business, corruption and sanitise the port environment. Before now, NPA, Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Technical Unit on Governance and Anti-Corruption Reform (TUGAR), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) and the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN) had assessed maritime operations to proffer solutions to the highly corrupt business environment. Standard Operating Procedures The quest for digitalisation has led to the introduction of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and a Grievance Reporting Mechanism (GRM) to uphold the standards set by the SOPs and a web portal to administer the complaint collection and communication under the management and coordination of NSC as a one-stop shop to resolve grievances and to increase the levels of accountability of port officials in their adherence to SOPs. The maritime lawyer said the Federal Government and private sector investors were losing a total of $10.1 billion yearly to corruption due to lack of digitilisation at the ports. He urged the government to support the Council to deal with the menace. Corruption at ports A senior official of the Federal Ministry of Transport, who craved anonymity, said one of the agencies under it, recovered $14,000 bribes from officials saddled with boarding and inspection of vessels sometimes ago. The official said bribes being collected from seafarers and captains of ships had become an international embarrassment to the Federal Government and the country at large. He said the seaports have attained 80 per cent digitalisation. He said it was not easy to achieve this, adding that they had the scorecards of every terminal and shipping firm that led to the tremendous improvement. He said the 80 per cent digitalisation was lower than 90 per cent targeted by the Shippers Council in the first quarter of last year. According to him, the council targeted 90 per cent digitalisation in the first quarter of the year, unfortunately, it did not achieve it although it was still pursuing it in earnest. “Most of the ports in the world are digitilised. Nigeria cannot be an exception. We cannot have a multitude of people going into the ports every day. Human contact at the ports is very dangerous. It is anti-efficiency and once there is human contact, there will be corruption and, then, delay. Some people don’t even have any business to go to the port, but you see them there, what are they doing? “NPA needs to work with shipping companies and terminal operators to ensure we make the improvement we want in the port, because  it may not be feasible to attain 90 per cent digitalisation. What the NPA needs to ensure on the average 85 and 90 per cent, but digitisation of the ports is a process in the making. We want this to happen as quickly as possible,” he said. The level of digitalisation On the level of digitalisation of shipping firms, a clearing agent, Mr Kayode Ogunsanu said, Grimaldi had over 88 per cent; Ocean Network Express 80 per cent, and CMA CGM 75 per cent. He added that some of those that scored 35 per cent, had improved with the guidance of the regulatory agencies For seaport terminals, Ogunsanu said PTML had 94 per cent, and in Port Harcourt, Intels, BUA and Wact had over 70 per cent digitalisation each. “Where there would  problems is on reforms and claims processes, which is mostly manual, there are some that scored 60 per cent. “Also, the second phase is the integration of systems for anybody can be online, but there is a need to integrate with the banks, for example, and even the Nigeria Customs Services’’  he said. Promotes cleanliness in the port environment The Acting President, Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANCLA) Dr Kayode Farito said digitalisation would promote cleanliness in the port environment as well as tackle illegal trading. “NPA needs to clear the whole port environment, and work with other agencies and the Ports and Offences Act should be cited to clear the place. “You cannot sell food or diesel at the port.The port is a special place that requires the speedy execution of transactions. We cannot have people selling engine oil,” he said. He said for Nigeria to define its role in the transport sector, which would be very significant, there was the need to accommodate bigger ships in our ports and that was the role the Lekki Deep Seaport would play.