In the end, just like a title race or World Cup final, it was a saga that ran right to the end. After courting astronomical offers from his current club, Paris Saint-Germain, and LaLiga giants Real Madrid, Kylian Mbappe made his choice to stay in the French capital and now has the chance to not only build his own legacy, but build the project around him. But how did he get here? What was the critical moment in negotiations? And what’s next for both teams?ESPN’s Julien Laurens, Rodrigo Faez and Alex Kirkland tell the story. After months of talks, negotiations, mind-changing moments, twists, meetings, huge bids, uncertainties and doubts, Mbappe waited until the end of it all and made his decision himself. On his own. He listened to the opinions of his mum, Fayza, and his dad, Wilfried; he consulted with his lawyer, DelphineVerheyden, and even took phone calls from Emmanuel Macron, the French president, who asked him to stay in Paris. He received messages from some of the most powerful men in France, all of them saying the same thing. In the final days leading up to his choice, his mum travelled to Qatar to meet with PSG’s hierarchy, while Mbappe spent a day in Madrid. Everything had been building to this moment starting back in January, when ESPN reported of PSG’s sudden optimism in being able to extend Mbappe’s contract. The forward told both clubs back in February that he would do it his way in terms of deadlines, timings and ways of deciding. Last week, both clubs’ final offers were on the table, and he was happy with both of them, but neither club knew what the outcome would be. Real Madrid have tried to sign the France star since he was 11, making recruitment pushes several times (in 2011, 2016, 2017 and 2021, and again this summer) over the past 12 years. In the end, the French club needed him to stay. PSG’s Doha-based ownership couldn’t bear the thought of not having the biggest star playing for them while Qatar hosted the World Cup this summer. And while both clubs believed at some point that he would join the other side, he eventually decided to remain in Paris. It was not an easy call, but he felt it was the right one for him. So how will the deal work? At 23, he is now the highest-paid player in the world. He received a three-year contract, a salary of €57 million net per season, various bonuses potentially worth €100 million over the three years of the deal, sources told ESPN FC. But the most important thing is not even financial.   Ibadan boxers sure of victories at GOtv Boxing Night 25     International Friendlies: Ogunjimi rallies support for…     7,000 French police for final   PSG have given him the “keys” to the club. He will have — and already has had — his say on the choice of manager, sporting director and probably players on the squad, too. Mbappe wanted to be the face, the head and the heart of the PSG project, and they’ve cleared a path so he can be just that. From here, there is so much for him to achieve at the Parc des Princes: to beat Edinson Cavani’s record as the club’s all-time top scorer (he is already just 29 goals behind), to win PSG’s first Champions League, to be a PSG player during the 2024 Olympic Games in the French capital and many more. With Mbappe’s extension will come a lot more changes at PSG, and it didn’t take long for the effect to ripple through the club. Mbappe didn’t want to work with Leonardo anymore, and on Saturday night, only a few hours after the official announcement of the forward’s extension, PSG told the sporting director he was sacked. To replace him, as ESPN revealed, Mbappe put forward the name of Luis Campos. The pair worked together back in Monaco, where Campos always protected the young prodigy. (Mbappe joined the club’s youth set-up in 2013, working his way up to the first team in 2016.) They were very close then, and still are, and the Portuguese is considered as the best talent-spotter and recruiter in European football. Campos was also waiting for an opportunity like this; after three years as director of football in Monaco and then another three at Lille, he’s set to arrive in the French capital after a brief stint advising Celta Vigo. Sources told ESPN that Campos would have likely joined Real Madrid — he spent a year as a scout for Real Madrid in 2012-13 — had Mbappe decided to go to the Bernabeu; instead, they are expected to be reunited in Paris. One of the first tasks awaiting Campos will be to reshape this squad as the Ligue 1 champions desperately need money to come in. He will have to recruit cleverly, too, though Mbappe’s decision to stay could change everything for some players on PSG’s radar. Midfielder Aurelien Tchouameni, who is also being pursued by Real Madrid and Liverpool, is reportedly considering the Parisians’ offer more seriously than he was before.