Singer Ọlawale “Brymo” Ọlọfọrọ has drummed support for All Progressives Congress( APC) presidential aspirant Asiwaju Bola Tinubu ahead of the 2023 election. The “Ara” singer publicly declared staunch support for Tinubu on Tuesday in a series of tweets. According to Brymo, Tinubu has the wherewithal to generate working blueprint for the country. It all began when a Twitter user simply identified as Ochikolota Umunwanyi said: “This Jagaban candidacy has truly helped me see that so many Nigerians actually don’t care about purposeful or diligent leadership.” Corroborating Umunwanyi’s tweet, Brymo responded: “Yet… he’s the one with a plan, we all know that… Let a city boy be president for once!.. never met the man, or any one who represents, or is acquainted to him, or even his relations and political affiliates – and if we stopped trying to kill them off for being old.”   IPOB slams CAN over neglect of kidnapped clergyman in Sokoto     Youths block police station over failure to arrest…     Bauchi relaxes curfew imposed on troubled communities to 12…   Another Twitter user with handle @opsoniteblue in response to Brymo’s tweet asked; “Have you seen the plan? What is a “city boy”? Abi na kpeff dey talk?” Responding, the controversial singing sensation wrote: “About having a Plan; You live in what town ?.. I live in Lagos.. Yh! City Boy.. It is like lagos moving into aso rock, it is guaranteed to work!.. even if looting is rife it’ll still be the best presidency yet.. On God!” In subsequent tweets, the 36-year-old singer buttressed his desire to see Jagaban rule as he noted he had the right to pick a candidate being a citizen of Nigeria. More importantly, Brymo unequivocally stated Tinubu possessed a blueprint which will certainly work in transforming the country while challenging the citizens to give him a chance. He added: “You may be trying for God knows why, I am just looking for the best options there are, something to bridge the aspirational divide.. and it is my country as well, I have natural rights to pick a candidate and speak for why!!. “Wait!.. you don’t want to find out if truly there’s a blueprint for even future infrastructure in this city…like you wouldn’t like to have proof of all you heard of the man and this city ?..wouldn’t you like for someone to curate a working blueprint for this country ?.. I do!”