Lagos Traffic Radio has said it would continue to leverage on technology and innovation to deliver timely travel advisory to listeners within the State. The station’s General Manager, Mr Tayo Akanle, stated as the station kicked off its 10th year anniversary last weekend with a Jumat Prayer and thanksgiving service at the Chapel iof Christ the Light, the Interdenominational Church at Alausa, Ikeja. Akanle, speaking on the anniversary theme: “Celebrating 10 years of traffic reportage – Gaining momentum for The future”, said despite COVID-19 and other challenges the station did not relent in its delivery of accurate and timely transit updates to motorists. Akanle also gave assurance the station will introduce live feeds to give real-time updates across the metropolis via the use of CCTV cameras installed by the State Government. “All these we will continue to do in line with our mandate of providing real-time information will enhance the station’s performance and make us the preferred station by esteemed listeners,” he said.   ‘Nigerians suffering leadership problem’     Ogbara clinches Kosofe APC Reps ticket     APC coalition urges Buhari to respect alliance with…   He commended Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for his unending support to the management and staff of the station in delivering its mandate in line with the T.H.E.M.E.S Agenda. The Presiding Chaplain, Chapel of Christ the Light, Alausa, Ikeja, Venerable Ezekiel Oluwadare, commended the management and staff of the station for helping Lagosians navigate their way across the State. Chief Imam of the Lagos State Secretariat Mosque, Imam AbdulRakeeb Adekunle, commended the station on its timely assistance to motorists during the Jumat service to mark the tenth anniversary of Lagos Traffic Radio. Imam Adekunle urged the management and members of staff not to relax in providing relevant and timely information to the motoring public. Well-wishers and members of staff also expressed gratitude to God for his direction over the years, just as they pledged greater commitment to the delivery of accurate and timely updates to motorists and indeed all Lagos Residents. The tenth-anniversary celebration will feature Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, SAN, as lead peaker at the Colloquium. He will speak on the theme: ‘Integrated transport system as a lifeline for economic growth’.