Last year, merchant payment in Africa stood at $66 billion, a 94 per cent rise from the 2020 figures.The rise is attributed to e-payment users who change cash to e-money in show of confidence in the payment system. COLLINS NWEZE writes that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and other financial sector regulators across Africa are focused on getting more people to embrace e-payment to deepen financial inclusion and make transactions seamless. E-payment is gaining ground across Africa as more merchants begin to accept the transaction mode in place of cash. Many e-payment users are also changing cash to electronic money (e-money), further raising the volume of e-payment transactions in the continet. Electronic money (e-money) is defined as an electronic store of monetary value on a technical device that may be used for making payments to entities other than the e-money issuer. The device acts as a prepaid bearer instrument which does not involve bank accounts. The Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) e-naira is also meant to reduce cash use in the payment system and promote access to finance. In East Africa and Kenya, over 18 per cent of new merchants have self-boarded since MPESA began allowing companies to register on their platforms to deepen usage. Last year, mobile money’s value proposition expanded beyond P2P transfers and cash-in/cash-out transactions. It is an essential part of many people’s and enterprise’s daily life, particularly in Nigeria and low-and middle-income nations. Mobile money has fuelled financial inclusion for the world’s most disadvantaged, mainly women in developing countries. These are using mobile money to gain more economic independence. According to MoneyTransfers.com’s analysis of Adoption Survey data, 44 per cent of providers provide credit, savings, or insurance products, allowing marginalised people to invest in their livelihoods and futures. Payment merchants have eased the acquisition of such credits besides insurance premiums. In Kenya, Nigeria, Ghana and Egypt, for instance, one would only need a mobile phone and a pay bill number to remit such a payment. The sector is likely to maintain its growth in 2022 due to its goodwill from users.   World Bank: Nigeria, others got $49b remittances in one year     BDCs mull Autonomous FX Trading Window     Promo: Stanbic IBTC rewards 70 winners   Mobile money accounts are processing around $1 trillion transactions annually on different fronts, of which merchant payments are one form. Merchant payment stood at $66 billion last year, a 94 per cent rise from their 2020 figures, report from MoneyTranfers.com showed. MoneyTransfers’ CEO Jonathan Merry attributes this growth to increased adoption of mobile money services. He said: “A definite trend is emerging towards a more digitised mobile money market. “Many users are changing cash into e-money and either circulating it as such or using it virtually.” Again, merchant payments have doubled in value, hitting $5.5 billion in monthly transactions. Providers say substantial incentives, such as remote on-boarding processes, entice enterprises to their platform. There are several reasons the merchant payment option for mobile money is snowballing. First, the fundamentals of merchant processing are straightforward. You register with a merchant payment provider to accept mobile payments from your consumers (and receive payment. Second, the payment processor collects fees from your transactions and deposits the remainder into your business account. Selecting the appropriate choice enables your firm to spend less, get more helpful information, and find solutions specific to your business. You can enjoy all of that courtesy of constant interactions with the payment processor. The COVID-19 pandemic has helped in deploying merchant payment systems. Most people used virtual means to make purchases, pay bills, and raise money. The value of merchant payments reached $66 billion last year due to this sustained rise. Besides, the providers charge reasonable transaction fees.