The biting dollar scarcity has pushed more foreign exchange (forex) transactions to the parallel market, it was learnt yesterday. According to a business update report by the Financial Derivatives Company (FDC) Limited, between 45 and 50 per cent of forex transactions are now traded at the Black Market. The report was released yesterday. The trading ratio, which stood at 55 to 60 per cent in December last year, shows an increase in the movement of transactions to the parallel market as dollar crunch continues to hit businesses. The rest of the transactions occur at the Investors and Exporters Indow (IEFX) window (now the official window). In the report, FDC Managing Director Bismarck Rewane  said the forex market has been segmented with multiple exchange rates practice. He identified the IEFX window as the most important rate. Rewane said that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and most exporters and investors use the official window. He said: “It serves not only as a source of price discovery but also a barometer for measuring potential and actual CBN intervention in the market. Some of the exchange rate determinants are balance of payments, capital inflows and trade balance.” The FDC boss explained that the rates on the I&E window averaged N418.33/$, which is 0.43 per cent depreciation from the average of N416.55/$ in the second half of March.   Ohanaeze gets Obasanjo’s, Afenifere’s backing on Southeast…     Electoral Act: Amendment widens primaries participants     Presidency: no to tenure extension, interim government calls   He said: “It traded within the band of N417/$-N419.50/$. Similarly, exchange rate depreciated in the parallel market by 0.72 per cent to an average of N589.35/$ from N585.15/$ in the second half of March. Rates hovered around N588/ $-590/$ in the parallel market. Rewane said the steady increase in the foreign exchange due to higher oil prices is expected to support CBN’s supply of forex especially on the I&E window. Rewane said: “Rates on the I&E window is projected to trade around N417/ $-418.9/$, whilst demand pressure is expected to push up rates in the parallel market. It is likely to trade around N588/$-N590/$ in the short term. “As the foreign exchange reserves increases, the CBN will be able to increase supply of forex on the I&E window.” He said higher oil prices are expected to sustain accretion on the country’s foreign exchange reserves. However, downside risks exist from the country’s substandard production of oil following the increased rate of pipeline vandalism. Rewane said the sub-optimal oil production in the country continued to limit the country from bene ting from higher oil price. He said: “The foreign exchange reserves lost by 0.30 per cent ($119.88 million) to close the period at $39.62 billion (April 28) from $39.74 billion in April 14th. The decline is hinged on CBN’s effort to support the currency. “The reserves lost 1.36 per cent to $41.22 billion from $41.79 billion on November 1, last year. This is due to the CBN’s efforts at defending the naira, supported by higher oil prices. In the review period, the country’s imports and payments cover fell to 10.12 months. “The gross external reserves are expected to maintain their downward trend as the CBN intensifies efforts at defending the naira. Falling external reserves impedes the CBN’s ability to intervene at the foreign exchange market.”