George Turner, the godson of former President Goodluck Jonathan, has been jailed four years by the Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. The Presiding judge, Justice A.T Mohammed on Friday convicted and sentenced Turner, who was a former Special Assistant to Mr. Dan Abia, erstwhile Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, (NDDC), to four- year imprisonment. Turner, who was prosecuted by the Port Harcourt’s Zonal Command of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), between 2017 and 2022, for obtaining money by false pretence, money laundering and abuse of office, was jailed for failure to make full disclosure of his assets in his disclosure to the EFCC. A statement by the Head, Media and Publicity, EFCC, Wilson Uwujaren, said Turner was arraigned, with his wife, Jennifer Tinipre Turner, on four- count amended charges. Turner, who is also an aide to Bayelsa Governor, Douye Diri, was found guilty of failing to disclose his interest as a director and majority shareholder of Ashford Consult and Events Nig. Ltd in the Asset Declaration Form he filled at EFCC. He was said to have committed an offence contrary to Section 27 (1) & (3)(a) of the EFCC Establishment Act 2004 and punishable under Section 27 (3)(c) of the EFCC Establishment Act 2004.   Buhari joins prayers for late UAE President in Abu Dhabi     Nigeria’s unity non-negotiable – Olubadan     I’m most capable to defend Igbo interest – Wike   Justice Mohammed found him guilty on counts one and three bordering on non-disclosure of assets, but discharged Jennifer on counts two and four on the grounds that the amended charge was not served on her properly in line with the law. Turner was sentenced to two years each on counts one and three for failure to make full disclosure of assets. Turner and his wife, Jennifer were first arraigned on May 16, 2018 and re-arraigned on June 18, 2019 by the EFCC on four count charges bordering on failure to make full disclosure of assets and they pleaded “not guilty”. In the course of the trial, prosecution lawyer, I. Agwu called many witnesses and presented many documents in court. In his judgment, Justice Mohammed said that the prosecution established that the convict did not fully disclose his assets in the Asset Declaration form he filled at the EFCC. Against his declaration, the court found out that he was one of the Directors and majority shareholder of Ashford Consult and Events Nig. Ltd.