Twenty-four hours after Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu announced “a total ban” of commercial motorcycles in six councils and nine development areas of the state, Commissioner of Police Abiodun Alabi warned that violators of the ban will be prosecuted in mobile courts. Speaking on Sunrise Daily, a Channels Television programme, yesterday, Alabi said there were plans create mobile courts to prosecute violators of the directive, including passengers. Alabi said the police have come up with “strategies and tactics” to enforce the directive. “There is a plan for a kind of mobile court, where offenders can be tried. Wherever you are arrested whether you’re the rider or the passenger, you will be charged expressly,” he said. “Over time, people have been enforcing it but they didn’t do it in a holistic manner. We are going to look into the intensity of the enforcement and also change our strategies and tactics. We will ensure that this law is enforced to the letter.” Speaking on the implication of the ban on crime rate, Alabi conceded that it may cause a spike in criminality, but he said the police are prepared to tackle any security challenge. “We are anticipating a spike in crime. We know that banning Okada will increase the crime rate in the state, and we are not unmindful of that. We are already putting in place strategies to contend with them. We are prepared for that,” he said. “The police have the capacity. And it’s not going to be the police alone that will handle this; there is going to be inter-agency collaboration. We are going to work in synergy to enforce this directive to the letter. “Most of the Okada riders are criminals. We have arrested a lot of them with locally-made pistols in the course of their operations. And most of them have been charged to court. “Most of them are using Okada as a kind of disguise and that’s why we have been having discussions with their unions. The best way out is to flush them out of our society. Most of them are masquerading as criminals.” Alabi said couriers, owners of power-bikes and private citizens who own motorcycles are not affected by the ban. “The blanket ban does not affect couriers that are not carrying passengers. And we will ensure that they are actually couriers and not people pretending to use it to work against the law,” he said. “And people who are private owners and are in uniform are exempted. People who own power bikes are not affected because it’s not meant for commercial purposes.” Protesting motorcyclists blocked the Alaba Rago area of Badagry Expressway following police clampdown on errant operators.   Saraki woos delegates in Gombe, Taraba     Udom: I will revive economy, restore security     Don’t stampede parties on primaries, says…   The Nation reports that policemen from Area E Command and Taskforce had impounded over 200 motorcycles for allegedly flouting the state traffic laws. The police had renewed their clampdown on motorcycles following last week’s murder of a sound engineer, David Imoh, by a mob consisting of cyclists at in Lekki. The lynching and burning of Imoh attracted widespread condemnation which led the state government to review the restriction placed on motorcycles on major highways and some city routes. It was gathered that policemen who have been on special alert against recalcitrant commercial motorcycles across the state caught some of them in the act and impounded their cycles. But the aggrieved cyclists, a source said, claimed that they were not operating in the banned routes, and also that the police usually seize their bikes and demand huge sums of money to release them. Police spokesman, SP Benjamin Hundeyin said calm had been restored in the area, adding that over 200 bikes were seized and some suspects arrested. The state government also issued a 14-day quit notice to traders at the popular Alabo Rago market to enable its remodelling. A joint state team led by Commander, Rapid Response Squad (RRS), CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi and Chairman, Lagos State Environment and Special Offences Unit (Taskforce), CSP Sola Jejeloye, met the occupants of the market in clusters to inform them of the vacation order. The Lekki Phase I Residents Association (LERA) also placed a ban of their own on commercial motorcycle operators or okada in their area. Chairman of LERA Mr Yomi Idowu appealed to the state government to enforce the okada ban in the state and also urged the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development and the New Towns Development Authority (NTDA) to flush out hoodlums and miscreants in uncompleted buildings in the community. Idowu described the killing of a sound engineer, David Imoh in Lekki as animalistic and senseless. He said: “Intelligence reports reaching us are that following the raid on Okada riders and subsequent seizure of their bikes in Lekki Phase 1 by officials of Lagos State Taskforce, the riders, who believe the action was instigated by Lekki residents, are planning to attack the residents.” “We in Lekki Phase I cannot risk the lives of our people further…We are, therefore, taking proactive measures by banning activities of Okada riders with immediate effect. We choose to live and say no to Okada on our roads and streets,” he said. Member of Board of Trustee Chief Emeka Nweze said those who patronise the Okada riders are not homeowners, rather domestic workers and people working on sites. He called on the state government to ensure owners of undeveloped properties start working on them or have them confiscated. “We cannot continue to harbour miscreants in those uncompleted buildings,” he said.