Smarting from Leicester City’s 3-1 loss to Tottenham Hotspur, Nigeria international striker Kelechi Iheanacho is targeting victory in the crucial UEFA Europa Conference League ‘s semifinal-second leg tie against Roma on Thursday. Some 3,000 Leicester fans cheered Iheanacho against Spurs and it was his goal that gave the Foxes something to cheer late on but he reckoned the English Premier League side must be at the ready against Roma after both sides played out a pulsating 1-1 draw in the first leg. “I had a shot in the first half and, in the second half, I took the ball quite well, I shifted it and saw the space and put it there. We lost today, the goal came late, so we won’t dwell on it. We need to get back now, we have a big game on Thursday,” he told the Leicester City website. “We have a good squad, we can change things around. Hopefully, it will work quite well for us. They have a strong team, but we’re looking to get to the final.   Battle of La Ceramica: Klopp, Emery talk tough on UCL…     Heineken boost Enugu fans for Real, Man City duel     FIFA punishes Nigeria, five others over stadia skirmishes   “Our supporters always support us, in good and bad situations. They’re always there for us. We’ll keep going and keep giving them our best and hopefully, we’ll get something for them on Thursday,” Iheanacho said. He, however, said Leicester City will focus on picking up positive results in their remaining Premier League games. The Foxes left north London empty-handed, despite a strong showing in both halves. A brace from Son Heung-min and Harry Kane’s opener ultimately sealed three points for Spurs, with Iheanacho on target late on. “We are really disappointed in the game,” he said. “We lost, and obviously, we played well in both halves. But what changed the course was the goals. We’re always together when we win and when we lose, so we won’t dwell. We’ll move forward, and hopefully, we’ll sort that out and focus on the next games. “We were getting in the right positions and moving the ball quite well. [The goals] changed the course of the game. That’s what we need to correct. We won’t dwell on it, we need to focus and concentrate on the next game,” he added.