The Director General of National Coalition for Tinubu Support Groups, Dr Doyin Johnson, has assured former Lagos Governor Asiwaju Bola Tinubu will create jobs and ensure economic development if elected President in 2023. Speaking to journalists in Abuja after meeting with FCT branch of the organidation, Johnson said: “Tinubu’s dynamic and forward-thinking leadership style as Governor of Lagos State and continued recommendations to various governments in the years after have proven powerful and effective drivers of economic growth and prosperity.” Doyin said a vote for Tinubu will guarantee youth employment and transformational leadership. He stated Nigeria needs a leader like Tinubu who can transform the nation to among the best 10 in the world. He added: “I am very optimistic if Tinubu becomes president of Nigeria, this country will have master plan that will take us out of poverty within few years.   Who will PDP pick as flag bearer?     2023: Atiku promises to restructure Nigeria     SWAGA ’23 launches in Kwara   “One of the economic challenges Nigeria has to manage is creating jobs fast and large enough to match our exploding population growth because he has a master plan. “Oftentimes, the multiplication of jobs in the economy is overshadowed by the fact that new entrants into the economy overwhelm the development. “This is where the Tinubu-brain and exposure are needed, particularly to build on the foundation laid by this administration. As the Governor of Lagos, especially at the time the state had to cope with a large influx of young Nigerians, Tinubu opened up the economy, pursued and implemented creative coalitions, and recalibrated government to focus on creating an enabling environment for private capital attraction and growth.” “His foresight and dynamic leadership set Lagos on a path that firmly established its position as a leading economic state in the country and Africa. “Our country is at a phase where such economic transformation is required and this is why we are fully convinced that Bola Tinubu is best suited to lead the country in 2023.”