Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar swept to victory last night in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential primaries, following last minute high wire horse trading masterminded by the northern establishment. Atiku polled 371 votes to brush aside Rivers State Governor Nyesome Wike, his closest opponent, who had 237 votes. Former Senate President Bukola Saraki came a distant third with 70 votes, followed by Akwa Ibom State Governor Udom Emmanuel with 38 votes, Bauchi State Governor Bala Mohammed, 20 votes and a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Pius Anyim, 14 votes. Others were Nwachukwu Anakwenze who scored two votes, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa one vote and Mrs Tariele Diana Oliver one vote. Former Ekiti State Governor, Ayo Fayose; Ovation Magazine publisher, Chief Dele Momodu; Mr. Charles Ugwu and Chikwendu Kalu recorded zero vote. Twelve votes were declared invalid. Minutes before voting commenced at 8.55pm, Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal unexpectedly stepped down and asked his supporters to cast their votes for Atiku. He said he came to the conclusion to step down following consultations with “so many leaders and my supporters.” He said: “In view of the situation of our country and the need for us in our party to minimise rancour and jostling for power, in any case, it is not always about an individual; it must always be about our country. “I have come to the conclusion that to the glory of God Almighty, and from the results of what we are seeing throughout the country – millions of Nigerians suffering, and the need for us to close ranks in the party, and as one of the leaders of this party – I have come to a patriotic conclusion to step down my aspiration. “Not only that, I would appeal to my supporters to take this in good strides and in the interest of national unity and patriotism, and not only that, those who are delegates here should vote for Alhaji Atiku Abubakar.” The former vice president took to his Twitter handle to thank Tambuwal for his gesture. “Thank you, H.E @AWTambuwal, for your spirited campaign. I look forward to working with you as we unite our party and our country,” he said. Moments after he was declared winner of the primaries, Atiku promised to focus on rebuilding and uniting the country if voted into office. “Today, the march to rebuild and unite our great country moves forward. I am honoured to be named the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),” he wrote on Twitter. “I look forward to speaking with Nigerians across the country, taking the message of hope and unity as we build one future for one people.” He pledged to restore the PDP to power. National Leader of All Progressives Congress and frontline presidential aspirant, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, congratulated Atiku on his victory. Tinubu, in a statement through the Director, Media & Communication Tinubu Campaign Organisation, Mr.Bayo Onanuga, commended the PDP flag bearer for his patriotism and commitment to Nigeria’s progress. Tinubu also congratulated the other contestants for the orderly and peaceful way they conducted themselves and for pledging to rally round the winner in the true spirit of democratic sportsmanship. He expected the former Vice-president, who was also the 2019 presidential candidate of the PDP, to be his “worthy opponent, by the Grace of God and the support of APC delegates” in the 2023 election. He said: “I welcome the victory of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the just concluded primary. I look forward to squaring up with him as a worthy opponent in the coming election. “I have known the former Vice President as a formidable politician and a patriot who believes in the unity and progress of our dear country. “As we move further into the election season, I charge the PDP presidential candidate and all political actors across party lines that we should make this election season one that is devoid of bitterness, rancour and strife. “We should make our campaigns peaceful and issue based. Election season should be a festival of ideas that will uplift our country and improve the living condition of all our people. “Unfortunately for the PDP, its candidate will be burdened to explain why Nigerians should give it another opportunity, after squandering 16 years at the central government without much to show”. “Nigerians are yet to forget the national ruin and mismanagement of our country for 16 years by successive PDP administration, and this bad memory will dog the campaign of the PDP candidate. “Nevertheless, I once again congratulate our former Vice President for his victory in his party’s primary.   Dapo Abiodun at 62: A bountiful harvest of blessings     The West’s white supremacy problem     Osun 2022: Between money politics and good governance   The Nation gathered that the deal that saw Tambuwal pull out of the race in favour of Atiku was engineered on Friday night by a group of Northern power brokers, led by a prominent retired Army General from the North West. The power brokers also got in touch with Bala Mohammed to quit for Atiku but he rebuffed them and insisted on pressing ahead with his ambition. A source in Tambuwal’s camp said it took a great deal of pressure on the Sokoto governor to accept to step down. The development may have deepened the division within the PDP along regional lines, with some PDP members from the south expressing shock at the action of the Sokoto State governor last night. The deal had first appeared doomed when a meeting hosted on Friday night in Abuja by former Jigawa State Governor Sule Lamido in Abuja failed to achieve its objective. The meeting conveners had tried to convince the northern aspirants to rally behind the former vice president with a view to stopping Wike who, in their opinion, stood a better chance of clinching the PDP ticket except the north presented a strong aspirant who could match him in all fronts. Only Mohammed Hayatu-Deen agreed to withdraw from the contest and he did so early yesterday although he cited different reason for his action. In a statement announcing his withdrawal from the presidential race, Dr. Mohammed Hayatu-Deen said the process was “obscenely monetized .” His words: “We have endeavoured to forge a consensus which would have facilitated a seamless emergence of a candidate which unfortunately could not be achieved. “I wish to reiterate that I did not join party politics and to contest for the presidency because of personal gains and inordinate ambition, but in order to serve our country. “It is therefore based on personal principles and with great humility that I have decided after wide consultations to withdraw from this contest which has been obscenely monetized. “I wish to reiterate that I did not join party politics and to contest for the presidency because of personal gains and inordinate ambition, but in order to serve our country. “It is therefore based on personal principles and with great humility that I have decided after wide consultations to withdraw from this contest which has been obscenely monetized.” Another presidential aspirant of the party, Dr. Nwachukwu Anakwenze, withdrew from the race before voting yesterday. He said he took the decision because of the PDP’s inability to stick to the zoning principle. Anakwenze, in a statement entitled “If you change the rule in the middle of the game, no decent competitor would stand a chance to compete fairly,” said: “My decision to withdraw from the race is the inability of the party to stand by their zoning principle as enshrined in the PDP Constitution. “I have consulted widely with my people, elders and followers across the country and in the diaspora to arrive at this unpleasant decision to pull out of the race. I felt if you change the rules at the middle of the game, no decent competitor would stand a chance to compete fairly. “I, Dr. Anakwenze made this known in a statement today, May 28 2022 where I lamented that my attempt to work with the Igbo aspirants of South East Zone to forge a consensus which would give my people a renewed sense of belonging and hope to lead to the emergence of the party’s flag bearer could not be achieved by this abuse of the zoning principle. “My interest was to bring quality leadership to the country, foster unity and restore the hope of young people and the women as have shown in my campaign manifesto. “My decision to run for the office of the President with the great support of Nigerians in the diaspora was to bring in quality leadership that has eluded us as a nation for decades now, but this has been dashed. “Many things have happened in the last few weeks that showed certain persons don’t stand a chance to compete favorably; so it is on this premise that I, painfully withdraw from the contest today May 28 2022 in full support of a Southern candidate which is largely the wishes of Igbo Elders, the Diasporas and the voice of the people. “I thank the party for the opportunity to inform Nigerians about how well they can fair with an Igboman as President whose love for the country towers above the lust for power. Let all my supporters across the North and South who have shown me that there are good Nigerians that still believe in merit and would put that above primordial sentiment.” Some personnel of the Economy and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) were seen yesterday at the   venue of the PDP) national convention in Abuja apparently on account of allegations that the delegates were bribed by the contestants. The officers who were in red jackets with the “EFCC” crested at the back were seen in their numbers walking around and inside the venue. In one instance, they were seen inspecting a ‘Ghana-must-go’ bag carried by a man in the arena. But there was no cash in the bag.