Ahead of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential primary election, Prophet Godfrey Gbujie, on Wednesday predicted that former Anambra governor, Mr Peter Obi, will emerge presidential candidate of the party. Gbujie, Ministerial Leader of World Zionist Union in the South-East, made the revelation in a media conference on Wednesday in Awka. Gbujie, a 65-year old celibate prophet from Akabuo, Ahiazu Mbaise Local Government Area of Imo, but based in Enugu, said that after his emergence, Obi would assume the position of the political arrow head in Southern Nigeria. He noted that the duo of Atiku Abubakar and governor of Rivers state, Chief Nyesom Wike, though with more financial muscle than Obi, “are not favoured by God for the position”. Gbujie, who had published a book, entitled “Nigeria in Prophecy: A Complete Revelation in Nigeria Socio-economic, Political Affairs 1995-2014”, in December, 2009, warned against political money bags in the party subverting the will of God, saying it would spell doom for not only the party, but for entire nation.   NPC launches 2023 Census Situation Room     Police repel bandits’ attack in Katsina communities, kill…     Kwankwaso is messenger of God to fight hunger, unite Nigeria…   “I started praying for divine intervention due to concerns being felt about the primaries. “I was even interceding for Gov. Wike until about 1.40 am this morning when I got a revelation that there has been a plan to use money to change the delegates list in favour of someone else. “It was then that God revealed to me that Obi is the person for the PDP ticket,’’ he said. Gbujie said he had communicated the prophecy to the PDP secretariat via the National Secretary Sen. Sam Anyanwu. He warned that any attempt to manipulate the electoral process, especially the primaries, might result to something grave. “I have communicated this to the National Secretary of the PDP, Sen. Sam Anyanwu, and warned him not to be part of any move to subvert God’s agenda because it will not end up well for the party and the nation,’’ he said. He, however, did not say who would emerge as the winner of the Presidential election or predict if Peter Obi would become the President of the country in 2023. (NAN)