The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) yesterday postponed indefinitely, its Section on Public Interest and Development Law (SPIDEL) Conference scheduled for Sokoto between May 22 and 26, following the May 12 lynching of a student of the Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto State, Deborah. NBA President Olumide Akpata, who made this known in a statement, said the postponement was not only for the safety of the conferees and guests in the wake of the volatile security situation in the state, but also as a mark of respect for Deborah’s memory. The Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Nnaemeka Achebe, has debunked reports that he called on every Igbo living in the North to return home immediately. A section of the social media had alleged that the monarch asked Ndigbo to leave the North, following recent ugly incidents in the area, including the death of Deborah.   US to discuss food security with Nigeria, others     BREAKING: Gunmen kill three Ebonyi Council chair’s…     House of Reps members that may not return to 10th Assembly   Achebe, in a statement by his Chief of Staff, Ime Obi Onicha, Chinyeleugo Anionwu, titled: “Obi of Onitsha has not issued any statement regarding recent events in the northern part of the country”, described the report as fake, saying it should be disregarded. Garba Emmanuel, father of the late Deborah, has narrated how his daughter was killed. Garba, who witnessed the killing of his daughter, said the mob action took place despite the presence of over 100 security agents comprising the Police, NSDSC and DSS. Sokoto Police Command has declared wanted, the prime suspects linked to the killing of Deborah, for culpable homicide. In a statement yesterday, the spokesman, ASP Sanusi Abubakar, said the suspects had been declared wanted for culpable homicide. The command appealed to the public for cooperation with the police, saying they should report any mere identification to the command or any security outfit in their domain through its emergency number: 07068848035.