A political group has donated the sum of N10 million to member representing Birninkudu/Buji Federal Constituency in Jigawa State and Chairman, House Committee on Power, Magaji Da’u Aliyu to help him purchase nomination form ahead of 2023 general election. Speaking while receiving the money donation, the lawmaker said he got the courage to re-contest the position from his constituents who gave him money for nomination form. Hon. Magaji Da’u Aliyu explained that he is overwhelmed by the donation, describing it as ‘inspiring.’ According to him, “These donations from my constituency mean they need more from me. It is a challenge, but I will continue to do my best for the improvement of the life of my people at all cost.”   Malami restates commitment to contest guber election     Middle Belt Youths urge Adamu to consult Buhari before…     FG seeks to revive 160 moribund textile companies   He also promised to continue with good representation through provision of developmental projects that will improve the social and economic lives of his people. Speaking while presenting the money to the lawmaker, the chairman of the political community groups under the ages of Hon Magaji Da”u Supporters, Comrade Shamsudeen Umar, said they deemed it necessary to give extra support to their rep member, so they can continue enjoying his good representation. Umar maintained that “In appreciation of effective representation in the national assembly, community members from across 22 political wards in Birnin Kudu Buji federal constituency have donated N10 million to Hon Magaji Da”u Aliyu to purchase nomination form for his third term bid.” According to Umar, “Hon Magaji Da”u Aliyu has brought a lot of developmental projects to the constituency, which include hospital, higher institutions, power substation, roads projects, electrification, agriculture and many other projects that has impacted positively on the life of people in the constituency and beyond.” He also noted that Aliyu has in the last 7 years attracted employment to over 500 youths, empowered 20,000 women and placed 2,500 on monthly allowance.