Police in Enugu State have arrested a popular native doctor, Aneke-Ikenga, and two others for alleged kidnapping. The suspects aged between 27 and 36 were alleged to have kidnapped one Amechi Oguama on October 20, 2021, collected a N10 million ransom from his family and never released him till date. Police spokesman Daniel Ndukwe, who confirmed the arrest of the suspects in a statement, said they were among 45 suspected criminals arrested in Enugu between March and April 2022. The statement gave the names of the suspects as Oko Chukwudi popularly known as Anka-Dede; Ifeanyi Eze aka Abrinanwa and Sunday Ede Aneke. Ndukwe said the suspects were arrested on March 22 and 24, 2022 by operatives serving in the CP Monitoring Unit.   10 feared dead in Abia pipeline explosion     Many injured, 40 cows set ablaze in Anambra      Three in police custody for robbery in Ogun   He said the suspects, who hail from Akpugo in Nkanu West local government area of the state, were members of a criminal gang that specialised in kidnapping. The police spokesman said three members of the gang, whose names are Chioma Uwa (female) aka Dr. Happiness; Chekwube Nwatu (male) aka Cheche, and Emeka Uwa (male) aka Akimbo, had earlier been arrested, arraigned in court and remanded in the Enugu Correctional Maximum Custodial Centre. He said, “The newly arrested suspects confessed to having been actively involved in the kidnapping of the said victim and the receipt of ransom of over N10 million by the criminal gang. One Berretta pistol with 1.9mm round of live ammunition was recovered from them.” “Meanwhile, the suspects will be further arraigned in court and prosecuted alongside the previous suspects once supplementary investigation into the case is concluded.” Nsukwe noted that the arrest would not have been possible without the support from residents and sister agencies. He advised citizens of the state to remain law-abiding, vigilant and continue to support the police by promptly reporting criminals and their activities to the nearest police station or by “calling the Command’s emergency hotlines on: 08032003702, 08075390883 or 08086671202.