Less than a month to the 26th anniversary of the gruesome assassination on June 4, 1996, of Alhaja Kudirat Abiola, wife of the late undisputed winner of the June 12, 1993 presidential election, Chief M.K.O. Abiola, and the most prominent face of the struggle for the validation of his unjustly annulled mandate, her son, Mr Abdul Abiola, has made a heart-wrenching plea to President Muhammadu Buhari to fulfill his promise to bring the murderers of his mother to book. In a message on his Twitter handle, Abdul stated, “At the early stages of your second presidential campaign, I remember the things you said, so I know that you are a man of justice and equity, hence, my confidence in you. As this administration comes to an end, I would like to call on President Muhammadu Buhari to investigate the murder of my mother Kudirat Abiola. Her anniversary comes up in exactly a month from now. The confession of her murderer, Sergeant Rogers, must be investigated”. The torment and ache in the young man’s mind can be understood and is no doubt shared by large numbers of people within and beyond Nigeria. In one of his immortal aphorisms, Africa’s first literature Nobelist, Professor Wole Soyinka, declares that “Justice is the first condition of humanity”. A community in which Justice does not reign supreme will be difficult to differentiate from an assemblage of beasts where might is right and the evil-minded can perpetrate their heinous acts, including the taking of human life, with reckless impunity. Alhaja Abiola was murdered in broad daylight in Lagos when the white Mercedes Benz car in which she was riding with her driver and personal assistant, which was obviously being trailed, was shot at as the vehicle sought to link the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway Coca-Cola junction end of Ikeja. Kudirat and the driver did not survive the attack. The firm and unshakeable resolve with which she pursued not just the release of her husband from unjust incarceration but also the actualisation of the mandate he had been given in what is widely acknowledged as the freest and fairest election in the country’s history had obviously made her enemy number one to the General Sani Abacha dictatorship, hence its desperate determination to terminate her life at all cost. This was also the fate of the late Pa Alfred Rewane, a key financier of the struggle, who was also murdered in cold blood in his own house in Lagos by the regime’s goons, and several other lesser known names who lost life, limb and livelihood in one of the darkest periods of Nigeria’s history. Indeed, Kudirat Abiola’s case is one glaring instance of the mysterious ways in which Nigeria’s justice system works, sometimes in intriguing ways to serve the cause of injustice. For, in October 1998, during the President Olusegun Obasanjo administration, Major Hamza Al-Mustapha, Chief Security Officer to General Abacha, as well as Abacha’s son, Mohammed, had been charged in court in Lagos with the murder of Kudirat. Later, Kudirat’s personal assistant, Alhaji Lateef Shofolahan, was also charged as an insider mole that betrayed his boss and revealed her movements on the fateful day to the assassins. Others brought before the law for being implicated in the crime included General Ishaya Bamaiyi, garrison commander in Lagos, Mr James Danbaba, former Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Rabo Lawal, head of the mobile police team at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, and Sergeant Rogers Barnabas Jabilla who became a star prosecution witness. In the course of the trial, Sergeant Jabilla, who confessed to firing the shots that killed Kudirat and her driver but understandably left Shofolahan unhurt, gave evidence that he was obeying orders from his superior, Al-Mustapha, in carrying out these acts. He testified that it was Al-Mustapha who gave the ‘contract’ for the assassination of Kudirat to Rabo Lawal and that the killer team was then equipped with Uzi rifles complete with silencers, while the team was also provided with cash for the operation. He claimed that all these took place in the presence of Mohammed Abacha, son of the Head of State. Sergeant Rogers Jabilla confessed that of the three assassination missions he was sent on, only that of Kudirat succeeded while the attempts on the lives of National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) chieftain, Chief Abraham Adesanya, and publisher of The Guardian, Mr Alex Ibru, proved abortive, although the latter suffered serious injuries.   Reparation and repatriation revisited     A world shaping pestilence     2023 and the Nigerian progressives   However, in May, 2001, a Federal High Court in Abuja pronounced that Mohammed Abacha had no case to answer in the killing of Kudirat and that the testimony against him was based essentially on circumstantial evidence. He was consequently released. As the saga of the trial continued to unfold, a Lagos High Court on June 30, 2012, sitting at Igbosere, convicted Major Al-Mustapha and Shofolahan over the murder of Kudirat and the duo was sentenced to death by hanging. They were, however, discharged and acquitted of the crime by the Lagos Division of the Court of Appeal on Friday, July 12, 2013. The appel?ate court was of the view that there was not sufficient evidence to incriminate Al-Mustapha in the murder and the presiding judge, Justice Rita Pemu, alleged that the judge at the lower court, Justice Mojisola Dada, was “stroked to secure a conviction by all means”. The two men were consequently set free. Could this then have been a case of a murder without murderers or assassination without assassins? This fundamentally is the question that Abdul Abiola’s plea and poser to President Buhari as regards his mother’s assassination raises. Since the President during his campaigns had promised to bring the murderers to book, concrete steps ought to have been seen to be taken to achieve this objective. When crimes go unresolved in society and the state does not demonstrate convincing resolve to get to the roots of such infractions and bring culprits to book, criminals are emboldened to break the law with little fear of repercussion. It is thus not surprising that even with the transition from military dictatorship to this democratic dispensation since 1999, unresolved political killings continue to be a common feature in our polity. For instance, the embarrassing murder of the chief law officer of the nation, Chief Bola Ige, in his bedroom in Ibadan on December 23, 2001, remains shrouded in mystery. Four days before Ige’s death, a member of the Osun State House of Assembly and a key actor in the factional politics of the state, Odunayo Olagbaju, was murdered in front of a police station in Ile-Ife. Chief Aminosoari Dikibo was, on February 6, 2004, assassinated in Delta State on his way to a South-South Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) meeting in Asaba. Another case is that of Dr Harry Marshall, National Chairman of the defunct All Nigeria People’s Party (ANPP), who was murdered in his bedroom in Abuja on March 5, 2003. Similarly, prominent Lagos politician and governorship aspirant of the PDP in Lagos State, Funsho Williams, was bound, stabbed and strangled in his Ikoyi residence on July 27, 2006. A governorship aspirant in Ekiti State on the platform of the PDP was assassinated in the state on August 14, 2016. These are only a few of the many cases of unresolved political murders that occurred across the country. This, of course, reflects the vicious nature of our politics, the do-or-die approach to the quest for political power and the willingness of political actors to do anything, including eliminating their competitors, to achieve their goals of winning political offices. The Human Rights Violation Investigation Commission headed by the late Justice Chukwudifu Oputa, set up at the inception of the Obasanjo administration to, among others, unearth the culprits in some of these murders unfortunately turned out to be a star television reality show of sorts, with nothing concrete resulting from it. Perhaps what is needed now is a professional panel of seasoned security officials and criminologists who will investigate all unresolved political murders in camera and seek to find new leads to ensure justice is done. That is the best way to honour the memory of all those martyred in the struggle for the democracy we have today, and make killing of opponents less attractive to political actors.