Founder and President of Isis Models Africa, Mrs. Joan Okorodudu, has urged stakeholders to pay African models and creative talents serious attention. Okorodudu disclosed this when she unveiled the plan for the next edition of the Africa’s Next Super Model show. Africa’s Next Super Model is a reality TV show dedicated to scouting Africa’s finest talent in the modeling industry. The modeling expert said: “Our focus is to raise more young talents across Africa and launch them into the international modeling space.” She noted “black models’ are now the most sorted across the world.”   Femi, Made Kuti for first joint show “Father & Son: The…     Headies threatens to disqualify Portable over threats to…     Alma Mata honours Comedian Bovi   Okorodudu will be travelling with the CEO of Select Model Management, Mr. Matteo Pulgisi to Juba, Nairobi, Rwanda, and Burundi for the castings while in Johannesburg, South Africa, casting will be conducted by Stefano of Select Milan and Joan Okorodudu. Founded in 1977, Select Model Management is globally recognised as one of the most prestigious and innovative agencies in the model and talent industry. In 2019, Select merged with MP Management, the world’s fastest-growing global network of model and talent agencies, and had proudly launched the careers of new young faces such as Yoonmi Sun and Shanelle Nyasiase, and worked with established top models including Marjan Jonkman, Arthur Gosse, Adonis Bosso, Gao Jie, and Bar Rafaeli. Okorodudu disclosed the winner will be signed with Isis models Africa as the mother agency and Select models global. Okorodudu’s first African Franchise of a model contest and the longest-running model contest in the continent has given away 12 brand new cars to winners of Nigeria’s Next Super Model and has now launched Africa’s Next Super Model which is on the way to becoming the biggest model contest out of the continent of Africa. Select Models is the official partner to Africa’s Next Super Model coming up in Kigali Rwanda on November 26, 2022.