Occupational accidents and work-related diseases result in more than 6,000 deaths worldwide on a daily basis, according to the International Labour Organisation (ILO). The global body estimated that some 2.3million people around the world die from work-related injuries and diseases every year, while about 340million others suffer injuries from occupational accidents and 160million fall victim of work-related illnesses annually. ILO periodically updates its estimates and these latest figures indicate an uptick in the rate of work-related accidents and cases of ill health. They also bear out safety expert and  chair of the Lagos State chapter of Institute of Safety Professionals of Nigeria (ISPON), Olusola Ogunleye, who said about 6,300 people die globally every day due to occupational accidents and diseases linked to work. According to him, hundreds of millions more suffer injuries and other hazards that lead to extended absence from work. Ogunleye spoke during the commemoration of 2022 edition of  ‘World Day for Safety and Health at Work,’ where he called on government at all levels to show strong commitment towards building and maintenance of preventive safety and health culture and also ensure that occupational safety and health (OSH) takes priority in national, state and local agenda. He called on employers of labour in private and public sectors to integrate OSH management into their business model, and on employees to take responsibility for working safely and protecting themselves and others against harm at the workplace. “They should know their rights, and collaborate with employers and participate in the implementation of all preventive measures at the workplace,” the safety expert said.   PDP presidential aspirant sues party, INEC over N40m…     Akeredolu okays recruitment of 350 into Amotekun     ‘Why Lagos is embarking on demolition of distressed…   At another event to commemorate the same occasion in Abuja, the Federal Government stressed the imperative of collective approach to building occupational safety and health culture towards promoting national development. Labour and employment minister of state Festus Keyamo said government’s strategy included promoting public awareness about the need for safe and healthy environment at the workplace through national programmes, enactment of relevant legislations and entering collective agreements in line with ILO’s decent work agenda. “Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, we have seen that having a strong occupational safety and health system was very apt,” the minister said, adding: “We saw meaningful participation by government, employers, workers, public health actors, among others  that are crucial in protecting the working environment and safeguarding the safety and health of workers.” According to him, there is need for continuous collaboration and co-operation of all stakeholders across all sectors to ensure highest possible level of safety, health and wellbeing of workers in the country. The commemoration of the 2022 work safety day was a fitting occasion to once again highlight occupational safety and health at the workplace as a significant aspect of our basic civilisation as a people. Abusive conditions in the work environment derogate from our claim to civilisation and tarnish our collective image in humanity. Such abusive conditions had in the past been reported in factories – many run by foreigners – where casualised factory hands have been made to work in neo-slavery that in some cases has resulted in the death or permanent disability of affected workers. Nigerian labour laws are somewhat permissive and have allowed slave masters masquerading as employers to exploit defenceless Nigerians desperate to make a living in a harsh economy; very few of the cases that got exposed and made it to the courts have resulted in adequate compensation for survivors. It is good, therefore, that government at the recent commemoration touched on the issue of legislation, which is one area it needs to look closely into to remedy abuses that are perpetrated by stealth in some outfits. The emphasis of this year’s commemoration was, however, on collective approach to ensuring safe work environment. Workers must play their part by imbibing the culture of safety and supporting efforts by employers towards reducing, if not eliminate hazards in the work environment.