After years of being dropped from subjects taught in schools, History is back in the Nigerian education curriculum. The Oyo State Government has reportedly directed all public primary schools in the state to re-introduce the teaching of History as an independent subject, starting from the just-commenced third term of the 2021/2022 session. Reports cited the Executive Chairman, Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board (OyoSUBEB), Dr. Nureni Adeniran, saying the re-introduction of History was in line with the new education policy of the state government. Speaking last Monday while monitoring the resumption of schools in Ibadan, he said the new curriculum would enable pupils to appreciate the subject as an instrument of national integration, and also afford them deeper knowledge of their native country. Stressing the importance of History to nation-building, promotion of patriotism and human development, he was optimistic that teaching it to pupils as a subject would equip the younger generation with vital information on their past. To facilitate the teaching of the re-introduced subject, Adeniran said Oyo State government was distributing more than 4,950 History textbooks to public primary schools statewide. He applauded the Universal Basic Education Commission in Abuja for supply of the textbooks and other technical support received.   Gun-runner confesses     Deaths at workplace     Army couple’s murder   The restoration of History as a taught subject in Nigerian school curriculum is one of the best things to have happened to the education system, in our view. History was discontinued as a taught subject under the administration of former President Olusegun Obasanjo for purported irrelevance to the drive for science and technology of the modern age. That was a bad policy in the utmost, because it left this nation with an educational system that produced a rootless generation of learners. Common experience has shown that a people would hardly know where they are headed and the appropriate travel path towards the desired destination without adequate knowledge of where they were coming from – including past missteps on the way that needed to be guided against into the future. It is arguable, for instance, that much of the divisive tendencies we currently experience can be linked to lack of formal historical education on the part of agitators. So is the perpetration of unjust tendencies that fuel nationhood disequilibrium a function of willful connivance at history in some parts and lack of historical education in others. Moreover, the founding vision of nation-building endeavours like the National Youth Service Corps scheme is lost on most contemporary participants who have distorted notion of its value and objectives owing to lack of historical education. The restoration of History as a taught subject by the Oyo State government promises to be a catalyst for revival of historical consciousness. The downgrade of history in Nigerian national curriculum shifted the burden of historical documentation to biographers. But these could only scratch at the potential corpus of knowledge, especially with many participants in nationhood history yet alive and untapped. Meanwhile, it isn’t for nothing that all progressive societies as well as spheres of human endeavour preserve their respective history as a vital component of their body politic. Most developed nations set great store by routine transmission of the knowledge of their history. Actually, the knowledge and enterprise of even science would be incomplete without awareness of the history of science by practitioners. So, the Oyo State government has done well by re-introducing the teaching of history in public primary schools, but it can do even better by extending this to private schools as well, and higher up the education ladder to the secondary level. Besides, if being ‘an independent subject’ means learning of history by pupils is optional, the subject should rather be made compulsory for all. Most importantly, other states should hasten to emulate the lead by Oyo in restoring the teaching of History in their respective school curriculum.