In a country where institutions continue to pay lip service to the needs of the citizens with special needs, it comes as refreshing that the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, (JAMB), continues to strive to make a difference. Going by reports from its just-concluded Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME), 383 visually impaired candidates sat for the examination  in 11 centres across the country. And just like their less-challenged counterparts, the candidates were assessed in all subjects, with each availed the option of taking their examination via braille, computer or typewriter, whichever they found convenient. Equally commendable is the welfare and logistics put in place by JAMB to facilitate their participation. These included picking the bills for transportation, feeding and accommodation of the candidates – including those of their minders to and from the various examination venues, as well as the bills of those who could not return to their homes on the day of examination. In all, we cannot but commend the initiative – deriving as it were from the need to ensure that no qualified Nigerian is denied the opportunity to access higher education on the grounds of physical disability. According to the board, “The goal of the Ishaq Oloyede-led JAMB is to ensure that no Nigerian who is eligible, is prevented from taking the UTME regardless of disability… He holds the firm view that we must have a level-playing field for all candidates. As long as the candidate is intellectually capable and meets the minimum conditions for admission in the university/polytechnic/college of education of choice, he/she should have a good chance of admission placement.” This arrangement, which began in 2017 has seen to the processing of about 2,200 candidates for the UTME, with over a third admitted to courses of their choice in higher education institutions in the country, mainly universities. Last year, the number of candidates in this category was 332, while in 2020, it was 351. This year’s number – an obvious improvement on the two years, can only speak to the diligence in planning and execution for which the credit deservedly goes to the select group of senior academics and special education experts set up by JAMB for the task – the JAMB Equal Opportunity Group (JEOG) led by the current chairman of the governing board of National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN), Prof. Peter Okebukola.   Going for the jugular     Both must go     N80b alleged fraud   Commendable as it is, the number of those who have benefitted from the arrangement can only be a tip of the iceberg of those deserving Nigerians in this category. Indeed, were a census of this class of Nigerians to be taken along the lines of their special needs, the rest of the country would be shocked at not just the numbers left out of the loop but at the sheer inadequacies in the existing infrastructure available to cater to the different categories of special needs at this time. Such is its importance that it has become a reference point in several countries as a good model for Africa. Indeed, the initiative received respectable mention at a UNESCO meeting in Paris as recently as May 7, this year. For JAMB, the cost can only be imagined in an environment where inter-agency cooperation is virtually non-existent – the implication being that none of the logistical components can be outsourced to other agencies of government. We do understand that an agency like JAMB can only do so much in the absence of a coherent policy to address the broad concerns of the physically challenged. In any case, how many of such candidates get to write the UTME? How about the hundreds of thousands of other cases across the country, many of them stuck at basic education levels for want of such opportunities? What is to be done about them? Are the facilities in place adequate? What about the manpower? And the universities expected to receive the candidates; how equipped are they to attend to the day to day special needs of the qualified? Are there provisions in the public spaces, buildings and even libraries for those with special needs? Are there special considerations in the area of transportation? That the government continues to fall short in terms of policy and the matching investment to get this category of citizens to live an optimal, productive life is to put it mildly – unacceptable. None of the items for making life easy and tolerable to these fellow citizens requires rocket science to put in place. What is required is a fundamental rethink by governments at all levels, of existing policies and programmes on citizens with special needs, and a fresh resolve to implement extant relevant codes and statutes relating to them.