To boost its maritime security operations, the Nigerian Navy (NN) on Friday took delivery of its Landing Ship Tank (LST) NNS KADA which was built in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). NNS KADA, a 100-metre long roll-on-roll-off multipurpose vessel whose keel was laid in December 2019 at the Damen Shipyard in Sharjah, UAE, was launched 20 years after the navy decommissioned its last LST. With a capacity to carry over 250 passengers including 32 crew members and 16 embarked Special Forces, The Nation reports that NNS KADA is currently the largest LST in the whole of Africa which is designed for a range of duties including amphibious operations, strategic transport of equipment and troops, disaster relief, medical evacuation and humanitarian assistance. It also has a helicopter deck and significant space to carry troops and tanks for ground forces on special mission. Receiving the vessel at the NNS BEECROFT jetty on Friday, the Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS) Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo, said it took the ship 56 days and a distance of 8,414.34 nautical miles to arrive Nigeria from UAE. “NNS KADA’s maiden voyage afforded the ship’s company opportunity to pay port calls in five countries, which include Port Duqm in Oman, Port Mombasa in Kenya and Port Cape Town in South Africa. “Others are Port Luanda in Angola and Port Gentil in Gabon. These port calls were in line with Nigerian Navy’s diplomatic role, an opportunity to further consolidate the nation’s relations with friendly littoral states and allies. “I wish to commend the enthusiasm and professionalism exhibited by the Commanding Officer and his ships company throughout the voyage. This commendable conduct aligns with the Nigerian Navy core values of professionalism, integrity and team work and I enjoin the ship’s crew to keep it up,” he said. He said the induction of ship into the navy’s fleet would further enhance its deterrence capability against maritime crimes and illegalities within the nation’s maritime domain and Gulf of Guinea.   2023: Court declares Jonathan competent to contest     Supreme Court dismisses EFCC’s appeal against quashing of…     One feared dead as violence, protest trail APC House of Reps…   “Furthermore, the vessel will serve as a force multiplier to project power, respond to humanitarian crises and convey relief materials in support of non-kinetic operations within the region and beyond. NNS KADA will no doubt boost the Nigerian Navy’s capability in support of ECOWAS mandate,” said Gambo. According to him, maritime crimes were planned on land and executed at sea thus would require collective efforts to completely eradicate. “The ship will assist in curbing piracy further. The International Maritime Bureau (IBM) has delisted Nigeria from Piracy prone countries in March 2022 and we must continue to sustain efforts to maintain the feat so far achieved.     “Because would be maritime criminals will continue to restrategise in performing their crimes, we also must stay on top of our game with regional partners and other stakeholders like NIMASA, NPA, NDLEA among others to curb crimes in our waters,” he said. In a side interview with journalists, former CNS, Vice Admiral Dele Ezeob (rtd), urged the government to provide funds for the Navy to sustain the platform. “What is important is that the government must understand the import of sustaining this credible platform. This is currently the biggest Landing Ship Tank (LST) in the whole Africa. “Having gone round the ship, I came to terms with the technicality and equipment that were on board. It is important to consider the requirement for sustainability of this platform. Our experiences in the past have shown that if we do not put the resources, (global best practices demand that at least 40 percent of the cost of this ship should be made available for yearly maintenance and that has to be appropriated by the National Assembly) we would have a challenge in terms of sustaining and maintaining this very laudable platform. “The capability of this ship has been clearly enunciated by the CNS but what is important is that we must consider buying a second one to support this and ensure that we provide the Navy with the required logistics to drive and ensure that this vessel is available at demand. “Another area of importance is the consumption of the AGO to drive the ship. The ship requires about 360,000 litres of AGO to sail for about two weeks. So these are the critical areas of need that I will request the government to consider and ensure that they provide those enablers to allow the navy discharge it’s mandate as it should,” he said.