This essay is dedicated to Professor Richard and Dr (Mrs) Cecilia Okafor, who celebrated the golden jubilee of their wedding anniversary in pomp and pageantry last Saturday. A biopic of the crescendo and diminuendo of the lives of Rich and Cey enthrals like the famous music drama, the sound of music. At the beginning in 1969, it was in their bucolic village, Amofia, under the shadows of the Nigerian civil war that the love story started, and by 1972 they were married. Back then, Rich was a grade two teacher, and Cey a school certificate holder, with bleak future like other Igbos. But today, Rich and Cey are polished giant 24 carat gold. While Rich is a retired renowned Professor of Music Education and Ethnomusicology, who holds BA (Hons), from University of Nigeria, Nsukka, and a PhD from Queens University, Belfast, Cey is a retired Senior Lecturer, with a B.Sc from University of Nigeria, Nsukka, an MPA, M.Sc. and PhD from Enugu State University of Science and Technology, Enugu. Rich’s metamorphosis to stardom is indeed rich, and he rose on the sounds of music. As the choir master and organist of the renowned St. Patrick’s Catholic Church Choir, Ogbete, Enugu, from 1958 to 1976, Rich’s fame like Okonkwo of the Things Fall Apart, spread far and near. He was a famed star choral conductor, whose body movement and gyrations as he performed at several Catholic Diocesan Choir competitions, was a cynosure of eye and public enchantment. Perhaps, it was the legendry of those great music performances that attracted Cey to Rich. But definitely so, for late Bishop G. M. P. Okoye, CSSP, who asked Rich to seek university admission with a promise to sponsor him. Rich got admission to study music few months after he married Cey. He had on his room door a statement of intent: “All those who have the wings of eagle, let them fly, I too shall arrive”. And he indeed arrived in style. Cey on her part was also a dogged fighter for fame and fortune. With a child either in her tommy, or on her back, or beside her, she climbed the ladder of higher education with aplomb. Her second son Uchenna, describes her trajectory. While he was in primary school, his mother was a primary school teacher, while in secondary school, she had graduated and was teaching in secondary school, and by the time he became an undergraduate, she obtained her PhD and became a university lecturer. Cey held on the tail of the high flying Rich, and together they soared like eagles. While Rich entered the university on the scholarship of the Bishop of Enugu, he soon won the university’s Foundation Scholarship as the best student in his department, and subsequently a national scholarship with which he completed his university education, obtaining second class (upper division). With a good degree, he went straight for his PhD at the Queen’s University, Belfast, while Cey studied for a Diploma in Montessori Method of Education. As pioneers and exemplars of doggedness, endeavour and triumph, Rich and Cey pointed the light for their siblings, their relations and people who clustered around them as soon as they returned to Nigeria, in 1980. They started off at University of Uyo, where Rich was the head of department of music, from 1980-81, and later pioneer staff of College of Education, Eha-Amufu, 1981- 1989. He moved over to Anambra State University of Technology, in 1989, where he became a Professor of Music Education and Ethnomusicology in 1991. He retired in 2005, as Dean of Post Graduate School, and has over 20 books, and 76 peer reviewed journals to his credit. He subsequently became the pioneer director of General Studies Education, Godfrey Okoye University, Enugu, named after the Bishop who gave him scholarship in 1972.   Nation without statesmen     Time to run     Gale of endorsements   On her part, Cey obtained her Bachelor’s Degree in Education/Government from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, in 1986, and Masters in Public Administration and Political Science in 1997 and 2003, and a Doctor of Philosophy in 2005, from the Enugu State University of Science and Technology. She joined ESUT in 1999 as a Research Fellow II, and was appointed Senior Lecturer in 2005. She became the Head of Department of Political Science for two terms from 2007-2011, before she retired in 2016. In the cause of their lives, Rich and Cey have mentored distinguished personalities from all works of life, and so last Saturday, friends, relations and well-wishers gathered to celebrate their 50th wedding anniversary in style. A couple with human milk of kindness, their homes even till now remains a welcoming nest for even distant relations. As teachers, all their adult lives, the couple has moulded thousands of successful people. Deeply rooted in the Catholic faith, the clergy and the religious came in their numbers to celebrate their golden jubilee anniversary. The Catholic Bishop of Enugu, His Lordship Most Rev. Dr. Callistus Valentine Chukwuma Onaga, led the special thanksgiving Mass, at the Omnium Santorum Chaplaincy, Godfrey Okoye University, Enugu. In his homely, the vice chancellor of the university, and rector of the chaplaincy, Rev. Fr. Prof Christian Anieke, FLSN, FAL, described Rich and Cey as good people. He told of how Rich gives his all to the university, particularly in remembrance of his benefactor, Bishop Okoye. Bishop Onaga guided the couple as they renewed their marriage vow to the excitement of the worshippers. After the liturgy of the word, the celebration moved over to the Peter Mbah auditorium beside the chaplaincy, for the liturgy of the stomach, an afternoon and evening of sumptuous lunch and dinner for over a thousand guests. Disregarding the failing national economy, the couple, their children, relations and friends, under the planning leadership of Professor I.J. Chidobem, former vice chancellor of ESUT, and in-law of the celebrants, organised a one-in-town anniversary. In a toast to the couple, Chief Christopher Okafor, Ogbakokpo, retired Deputy Director of Central Bank of Nigeria, and younger brother of Professor Okafor, retold the humble beginnings of Rich. He recalled how Rich joyously went to Teachers Training College, to quickly equip himself to help his humble late parents Ogbueshu James and Mrs Veronica Okafor train his other 10 siblings, including himself. While Cey’s late parents Chief Michael and Uzodimma Amalu were of the middle class, the couple nevertheless bonded in love, from the beginning. That love relationship has produced five wonderful children, who are all happily married. They are Engr. Chukwuweike and Ijeoma Okafor, Engr. Uchenna and Ijedumma Okafor, Chibuzor and Chioma Okafor, Nwadunobu and Christian Aneke (nee Okafor) and Ihezuakor and Chukwunweike Okechukwu (nee Okafor), with 19 grandchildren. This column wishes Ogbueshu Ugobelunoji and my sister, Oke omume n’egbu nma, the joy of unblemished love.