Menopause could force women to act abnormally. But with right medication and support, it is easy to manage, experts have said. Social campaigner and journalist Mrs. Oluwatoyin Ohio-Alegbe, at a news conference, said it is time to bring advocacy and awareness of menopause symptoms to people. Ohio-Alegbe noted that menopause is neither an illness nor a spell or a bad omen. She debunked the misinformation that having intercourse with a menopausal woman will cause a man’s fortune to diminish or disappear. She said: “Menopause is when a woman has not had her menstrual flow for 12 consecutive months. There are three stages – pre, peri and post-menopause. Whatever stage a woman is, she needs the support she can get. “There is need to create more awareness on menopause because it has caused rifts and wrecked havocs in homes. Women passing through this phase lack the drive for sexual intimacy, experience crankiness, depression, strange sweats, among others, which can be managed by supplements, but many do not even know this.   ‘Jonathan’s candidacy won’t fly’     Free breakfast, gifts for Children’s Day     Old Boys unveils book at reunion   “That is why this sensitisation should be out there. When a woman is diagnosed, she should communicate so people can show understanding.” Dr. Joseph James urged women to go for proper diagnosis because the symptoms could also point to other illnesses. He said: “Sometimes it’s difficult for menopause to be diagnosed because symptoms usually look alike most of the time. But in menopause, these symptoms are vague, always appearing and disappearing. They could also be a conjunction of different kinds … so, most doctors don’t usually think about going straight to have a constant diagnosis…. “Menopause has a lot to do with female hormones of oestrogen and progesterone, which begin a declining process, even as early as late 40s. When below acceptable normal range, there’s a problem. This is a more definitive diagnosis. “However, there are supplements to help women. One of such is Menorite, a dietary supplement, which provides relief from symptoms of menopause.