An 83-member Global Coalition has resolved to defeat Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) to reduce the threat the group poses to international security in general and the national security of member countries. It also asked for synergies with other existing international, sub-regional and regional counterterrorism efforts and initiatives. It recommended civilian-led efforts, including prevention, stabilization, countering terrorist financing, counter narratives and foreign terrorist fighter prosecution The coalition made the resolution in a communiqué after the 2022 meeting in Morocco, which was the first to be convened in Africa. The alliance was established in 2014 to sustain pressure on ISIS remnants in Iraq and Syria and to counter its global networks, especially in Africa. At the session, the National Security Adviser, Major-Gen. Babagana Monguno, who led Nigerian delegation, called for strategies to minimize or eradicate national, sub-regional and regional threats by terrorist groups and violent extremists. A statement by the Head, Strategic Communication, Office of the National Security Adviser, Zakari Usman gave the details of the meeting. The statement quoted the communiqué in part: “Member countries affirmed that ensuring the enduring defeat of ISIS in Iraq and Syria remained a priority. “The Coalition acknowledged that, despite significant setbacks suffered by ISIS’ leadership in recent times, the group continues to conduct attacks in Iraq and Syria and represents an ongoing threat.   Women no longer wear pants – Esther Nwachukwu     PANDEF to PDP: you have dug your grave for jettisoning…     2023: The odd against Osinbajo   “The Coalition also reiterated the importance of allocating adequate resources to sustaining its activities and those of legitimate partner forces. “Civilian-led efforts, including prevention, stabilization, countering terrorist financing, counter narratives and foreign terrorist fighter prosecution, rehabilitation and reintegration are increasingly necessary to achieve the lasting defeat of ISIS. “Importantly, the Coalition recognized the need to meet the evolving threat of ISIS in Africa and welcomed the first three Africa Focus Group meetings, which took place in Brussels, Rome and Marrakesh. “The Africa Focus Group, the Coalition believes, will bolster the civilian-led counterterrorism capabilities of African members by drawing from experiences in Iraq and Syria and by fostering synergies with other existing international, sub-regional and regional counterterrorism efforts and initiatives. “The importance of addressing the underlying causes of insecurity in Africa was also stressed at the event. The Coalition reiterated that any lasting solution to halting the spread of ISIS in Africa would rely primarily on national authorities, as well as sub-regional and regional efforts and initiatives that acknowledge and address the political and economic drivers of conflict.” The National Security Adviser, Major-Gen. Babagana Monguno, who led Nigerian delegation, to the 2022 session, said it “was an opportunity to compare notes and share knowledge.” He said there was need to “expand network on strategies to minimize or eradicate national, sub-regional and regional threats posed by the activities of terrorist groups and violent extremists. He expressed the readiness of Nigeria to seek more support and partnership within the activities and mandate of the Global Coalition against ISIS to enhance its ongoing operations against terrorism It would be recalled that Nigeria and the United States co-chaired a virtual meeting of the same event in November 2020, where Nigeria’s position on the global coalition was firmly emphasized. Through the Counter-Terrorism Centre in the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA), Nigeria highlighted, among other issues, that the challenges of global terrorism had negatively impacted virtually every facet of human endeavour, including national security, the economy, polity, environment and the lives and livelihoods of people, as apparent in the Sahel, the Lake Chad Basin and parts of the North-East of the country.