In a bid to reposition and strengthen its brand awareness among Nigerians, the West African Seasoning Company Limited (WASCO), an affiliate of the global food giant, Ajinomoto and makers of Aji-no-moto® Umami food seasoning, has changed its name to Ajinomoto Foods Nigeria Limited. This was disclosed by WASCO’s Managing Director, Mr. Niki Junichi, who said the name change would contribute to making the company stronger and accelerate its business for a brighter future in Nigeria. Junichi assured that Ajinomoto Foods Nigeria Limited will continually and significantly contribute to promotion of good health and good culinary practice for healthy living of all families through the provision of nutritional seasoning products and other products of high quality to consumers. He said: “I would like to inform you all that West African Seasoning Company Limited has changed its name to Ajinomoto Foods Nigeria Limited. I truly believe the change will contribute to making our company stronger in Nigeria.   Duchess Hospital unveils affordable world-class healthcare…     LASUTH opens new dialysis unit     Stress can trigger diabetes says nutritionist   “There are two aspects of the purpose of changing our company’s name to a one including Ajinomoto.One is to strengthen the brand awareness and power of Ajinomoto among consumers, which is widely known in Nigeria by using the same brand name in our company’s name. Almost 100 per cent of our foreign affiliates use the name Ajinomoto in each company’s name.” According to him, every time the company’s name is exposed; it will indirectly boost the name awareness of Aji-no-moto® brands. “Second is for all stakeholders of our company including customers, our employees, etc. By informing our company name with the brand of Aji-no-moto®, it will simply make quicker and better understanding of what our company is. I can imagine when we mention our company’s name to our friends, relatives, family members, etc., they surely will understand which company we belong to. Let us use this opportunity to accelerate our business for a brighter future,” he said. Junichi noted that based on its safety, Aji-no-moto® umami seasoning is consumed in over 130 countries, adding that the usage of Monosodium Glutamate is to enhance taste and also increase deliciousness of food. Ajinomoto Foods Nigeria Ltd. commenced sales and marketing of Aji-no-moto® Umami seasoning products in Nigeria in 1991. With the need to satisfy its teeming consumers, the company spreads its sales & marketing functions to various branch offices nationwide. The food seasoning product has been selling for over hundred years, now selling in more than one hundred countries and regions including Japan, United States, France, Russia, Mexico, China, Belgium, Brazil, Indonesia, Vietnam, Egypt, Cote d’Ivoire, among others.