IT IS a super weekend without the super delegates. For the two leading parties in the land, the 2023 race enters a critical stage this weekend, with their presidential primaries   holding in Abuja. The super delegates who are also known as statutory delegates will be missing in action, no thanks to National Assembly members. As elected people, they had always been super delegates and were so provided for in the Electoral Act. But in the last amendments to the law, they screwed things up. They forgot to sustain that clause! The National Assembly members, as lawyers would say, slept on their privilege during that exercise. In their haste to amend the act to throw out political appointees, who in most cases are lackeys of either the President or governors, they dropped the ball. Somewhere, somehow, the provision for statutory delegates was no longer there! How did it happen? Ask the lawmakers. By the time they woke up from their slumber, it was too late. They hurriedly amended Section 84 (8) of the Act to remedy the situation. The power to amend is theirs, but the power to sign the bill into law belongs to the President. Having been dealt with by the lawmakers the way they got him to sign the reworked Act following the row over Section 84 (12), President Muhammadu Buhari is not in a hurry to assent the latest version to help the lawmakers’ cause. The lawmakers are desperate to be delegates at the presidential primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The most desperate of the lot appear to be APC senators who are pushing the aspiration of their president, Ahmad Lawan. President Buhari may not sign the bill in the next few days. Even if he signs it today, it may be of no use in the primaries, with that of PDP beginning tomorrow. So, the lawmakers, the President, his vice, governors and their deputies, among others, will not be delegates at the primaries. Though the Constitution recognises the right of an eligible person to vote and be voted for, this right does not hold in parties’ primaries. The rule guiding primaries is different. Delegates determine the fate of aspirants. These ad hoc delegates are elected at the parties’ congresses where the governors assert influence. To curtail the governors’ influence, the lawmakers came up with the idea of  statutory delegates to take care of themselves and other elected officers.   Is Nigeria’s democracy advancing or regressing?     Nigeria’s image: Need for national awareness     Extremism: The answer is in secularism   Their consolation is that they are not the only ones that will not be delegates at the primaries. Notwithstanding their absence, the race will be interesting in both parties. There are 28 aspirants vying for APC’s ticket, according to the party. Though three did not submit their forms, they have been pencilled down for screening before the main contest on Sunday. Seventeen aspirants are gunning for PDP’s ticket. In both parties, all the aspirants believe that they stand a good chance of winning. They have traversed the country wooing their parties’ delegates. They wooed them with all that they have. It was not just talk, talk and talk about what they can do if given the ticket to run in next year’s election. They were said to have given the delegates money too, tons of it. That has always been the case. Delegates have over the years come to perceive primaries as a money-making venture. Where possible, they are ready to clean the aspirants out. The aspirants too are willing and ready to part with money since they know that they can recoup whatever they spend if they win. Some of them know that they do not stand any chance, yet they are spending heavily. Reason: they know what they can use the tag ‘presidential aspirant’ to acquire after the whole show. For APC, its presidential nomination forms were sold for N100 million, and PDP, N40 million. Whether N40 million or N100 million, the fact remains that it is not a race for the poor, many of who have what it takes to lead the country. The poor may have ideas, but they do not have the financial wherewithal to grow their ideas. And the rich are not ready to back them. Instead, the rich, no matter how shallow they may be will always thrust themselves forward for leadership positions. They will tell you that they want to put their money where they can call the shots. It is good to call the shots where you have what it takes to do so. Among the contenders are pretenders. Who are the contenders? Who are the pretenders? The delegates know them. The delegates hold the four aces in these primaries. They know what to do. Vote for the contender as it is a sole ticket and vote out the pretenders, for they are many as we can see from the list, after collecting their money. The race will be tough, especially in APC, as it is the ruling party. The frontrunners are its National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Lawan and Rotimi Amaechi. Of the quartet, Tinubu stands out. He is a political strategist and a human capital development expert with the economic skill that our nation needs at a time like this. From the look of things, on his mandate, majority of the delegates shall stand this weekend. Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, former Senate President Bukola Saraki, Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike and his Sokoto counterpart Aminu Tambuwal are aspirants to watch in PDP. It is going to be one long and unforgettable weekend and the presidential primaries will go down in the nation’s political annals as the most crowded and hotly contested ever. That is if a consensus candidate is not suddenly brought out of a hat as magicians do with rabbits.