SIR: The private sector gained partial control of the country’s energy sector in November 2013 to encourage an efficient, affordable and reliable power supply, but since then, the national grid has collapsed more than 134 times resulting in severe economic, commercial and personal losses. Its cataclysmic implications on Nigerians who must continuously navigate the skyrocketing hike in fuel price include increasing cost of living and almost unbearable living conditions. With more than 60% of Africa’s most populous nation having no access to electricity and an annual loss of about N126 billion credited to power failures, renewable energy is considered a better alternative. Wind, biomass, solar, hydropower and uranium are renewable energy resources in Nigeria. The goal of the Nigeria Renewable Energy Master Plan (REMP) is for renewable energy to account for 10% of total energy consumption by 2025. However, despite attempts to increase renewable energy use in the country, short-term policies, lack of awareness and planning, high cost of set-up and political instability are some reasons for its failure. Since the last decade, the installation and use of solar inverters/panels have gained wide popularity while there hasn’t been much use of wind energy in Nigeria. One percent of the country’s landmass can generate 600,000 MW of solar power and because the sun influences wind energy, extensive wind energy mapping for offshore sites with higher speeds will provide foresight and opportunities for the use of wind turbines for electricity generation. Only a small fraction of hydropower potential has been exploited with over untapped 12,000 MW of potential hydropower which can produce about 50,000 GWh of electricity annually.   Kebbi APC donates 300 bikes to ward chairmen     Katsina council poll: Tribunals to begin trials May 10     Hoodlums attack FCTA officials   A shift from over-reliance on fossil fuels to renewable energy sources will lead to improved health outcomes (through pollution reduction), development of rural and neglected areas, preservation of perishable food items, better transportation, environmental protection, job creation, or household and commercial uses. To achieve sustainable and clean energy use would require extensive research as different parts of the country have unequal amounts of these resources, provision of capital and credit facilities, consumer education, investment in renewable energy projects, and implementation of policies/initiatives that encourage diversification. Integrating Independent Power Producers (IPPs) into the energy market will need to be monitored by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) to prevent abuse of market power. To this effect, standard fabrication materials, local manufacturing facilities and more transmission infrastructure should be provided to encourage a smooth transition from oil-dependent energy sources to renewable sources. Consequently, data on wind energy potentials should be made available to organizations whose goal is to develop indigenous technologies that will optimize wind energy consumption. Increased advocacy for solar energy use should also be encouraged as its potential to provide clean and reliable energy for household and commercial use is unlimited.