A socio-cultural group, the Yoruba Ronu, has urged the All Progressives Congress(APC) national delegates from the Southwest states to cast their votes for former Lagos Governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, as the party’s flag bearer. The group said Tinubu has formular to secure victory for the party in the 2023 presidential election. A statement by Director of Communications of the group, Steve Bayode, in a statement in Akure, said Tinubu’s presidency would engender massive development and service to the people. Bayode, who hailed Tinubu for his political dexterity, doggedness, undoubted courage and political acumen, said the former Lagos Governor worked assiduously over the years to put most politicians in office. He said: “It is only fair and logical to accord him opportunity to serve at the highest capacity for our nation being his long time known political ambition to serve the nation as its next president.   Zamfara relocates NYSC Camp to Gusau     Anambra cop killed in Police, hoodlums gun duel     Zamfara govt relocates NYSC camp to Gusau   “Nigerians are eagerly looking forward to the next level in progressive politics, economic growth, social welfare and increased national security ensured. “Asiwaju Tinubu is one who knows the way, goes the way and shows the way. A person that does what he says; a pragmatic person. The servant-leader type headship that talks, participates and leads his followers to achieve expected group goals as demonstrated in the way he used his positions as Governor to impact lives, opened up Lagos State to further developments and also ameliorated the sufferings of the downtrodden. “In moving forward beyond 2023, there is need to consolidate the gains, and the next level would require a pragmatic leader, someone with great vision the type of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to take our nation to an Eldorado of boundless riches. “So, as APC delegates file out to effect their franchise, they should put the interest of the party first and foremost by voting wisely and casting their votes for the man who can truly win the presidency for the party.”