Some eight weeks after an attack by terrorists that grounded its services on the Abuja-Kaduna rail corridor, the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) is set to resume operation, having successfully completed repairs on the damaged portion of the rail track. The attack by terrorists on March 28 resulted in the killing of nine persons and kidnap of more than a hundred others, most of whom yet remain in the hold of the terrorists. Of two expectant mothers among the victims, one was reported freed on compassionate grounds this past weekend while the other has given birth in captivity. Other hostages include an 85-year-old great grandmother, women, men and children – some as young as three years of age. In a recent statement, the NRC said repairs of the blasted rail track had been concluded and resumption of operations on the corridor imminent. “The reconnection of the Abuja-Kaduna Train Service, AKTS, line has been achieved. This implies that the major track components (concrete sleepers and rails) have been completely laid…Track access between Abuja and Kaduna is now restored,” the statement on behalf of the corporation’s managing director, Fidet Okhiria, said inter alia, adding: “As we have mentioned in our earlier releases, the Abuja-Kaduna Train Service will resume soon with additional security measures put in place. Passengers will be required to provide their NIN registration for verification prior to purchasing train tickets. This is for improved passenger profiling and safety on-board.”   Death in the palace     Yet another award     Smuggling   Relations of the hostages in captivity are, however, objecting to resumption of rail service on the corridor until their family members are rescued. For the umpteenth time, they addressed a press conference last week where they demanded prioritisation of hostage rescue above resumption of rail services. Their argument anchored on imaginable ordeals of the hostages, which are compounded with every extra day spent in captivity, and the likelihood that resumption of rail services would sideline the urgency of rescuing them. The family members noted that even without the restoration of services yet, key role players like Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, who superintended the transport ministry at the time of the terrorist attack, had gone on with their political aspirations. They also regretted that the NRC was yet to set up a situation room to provide the hostages’ families with regular updates on rescue efforts, contrary to a recent directive by President Muhammadu Buhari. Besides, there is the question of whether there will be public confidence in future safety of the rail service if the hostage crisis is left unresolved. From indications, there is a disposition to get on to other things in the leadership ranks – including the NRC management – which the hostages’ families are resisting as inimical to early rescue of their relations. And we think they are right. As with other tragic events in recent history, the vibes from the leadership class since shortly after the train attack has been to carry on with life, regardless that the hostages remain in captivity. Mr. President recently explained why the rescue effort is extremely delicate, saying the hostages were being used as human shields by their captors and government’s aim is to get them out alive without any falling collateral casualty of the rescue operations. Plausible as that argument is, however, the onus remains that the hostages must be earnestly rescued by whatever means – especially as they fell into harm owing to government’s failure to protect them in the first place. Meanwhile, the preoccupation of key officials with other aspirations hasn’t helped the optics of government attention to the hostages’ predicament. And by the way, is there sufficient guarantee in place already against a recurrence of such incident in the future? Much as it is important for NRC to get back to business, no effort should be spared to reassure relations and the entire nation that the hostages’ freedom is nigh.