Efforts to tackle high incidence of poverty caused by out-of-pocket expenses for health care, through health insurance for Nigerians by 2030 is now more realisable than ever, the Executive Secretary/Chief Executive Officer, National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), Prof. Mohammed Nasir Sambo, has said. Sambo made this known in a statement by the NHIS Deputy General Manager, Emmanuel Ononokpono. He thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for signing the National Health Insurance Authority (NHIA) Act, and the Senate and the House of Representatives, especially the Committees on Health for their invaluable roles in the lead up to the enactment of the law. He stated that for over two decades, industry professionals had sustained the call for amendment to the health insurance law, being a major impediment to the attainment of Universal Health Coverage (UHC),   Fed Govt okays tax reliefs, other incentives for tech…     GDP’s 3.11% Q1 growth driven by trade, telecoms     Residents allege extortions as LASPPPA seals houses   He noted that the Act establishes and empowers the NHIA to provide health insurance for Nigerians through a mandatory mechanism, in collaboration with state health insurance agencies. He said: “Specifically, Sections 25 and 26 of the Act establish the Vulnerable Group Fund (VGF), indicating the various sources from which funding would be drawn. Furthermore, the legislation strengthens the NHIA to discharge a wide range of regulatory and promotion functions to ultimately ensure that every Nigerian receives access to quality and affordable health care. “In relation to the Act, the NHIA wishes to state clearly that the legislation that Mr. President assented to does not make provision for a telecoms tax as a source of funding in the law contrary to hasty reports in some exuberant national media. “In any event, while the NHIA understands the excitement around the new law, it craves the patience of stakeholders and industry watchers including the media to wait for a formal unveiling of the document in days ahead”, he added.