It gives me great pleasure to be here to felicitate with you on the Nigerian Air Force 58th Anniversary Celebration. This is particularly so because the Nigerian Air Force has over these 58 years transformed into a formidable and resilient air force that is positioned to effectively tackle both contemporary and future security challenges”. “This adaptability has thus enabled the Service to respond effectively to our dynamic national security challenges.” “On assumption of office I “promised to equip and re-professionalize our armed forces to perform their constitutional responsibilities more effectively and we have demonstrated the required political will and leadership as well as committed resources towards capacity building and re-professionalizing the armed forces.” “Today, I can say confidently that the armed forces have indeed witnessed tremendous improvement in the past seven years.  In particular, the provision of modern equipment and personnel motivation through enhanced welfare are also ongoing”. “The provision of modern equipment and personnel motivation”, like the Super Tucanos and the Augusta helicopter gunships among others, have greatly helped turn the tide in the fight against terrorists and other non-state actors, and sustained the Nigerian Air Force”. “We will continue to provide more platforms to modernise the Nigerian armed forces”. – President Muhammadu Buhari, speaking at the ceremonial parade to commemorate NAF’s 58th anniversary in Kano, Monday, 24 May, 2022. Going further he said: “to this end, we have approved the procurement of more platforms such as the Beechcraft, some modern helicopter gunships and UAVs for the Nigerian Air Force to enable it to man our airspace more effectively.  Be rest assured that as a government, we are willing to do even more to ensure the provision of the requisite support and encouragement to overcome various security challenges.” If the above are true, with the fact that the Nigerian military is widely regarded as a decent fighting force, why then has  Nigeria not been able to make a dent on the crippling insecurity that has literally crippled Nigeria throughout the Buhari administration? This article will interrogate why. The piece, though not necessarily inspired by Niyi Akinnaso’s “Who gets kidnapped or killed next? -The Nation, Wednesday 25 May, 2022, as I had decided on the topic the previous Tuesday after  reading newspaper accounts of the  serial killings, muggings and kidnappings that happened in literally every part of the country days before, it at least affirmed for me, the reasonableness  of  having to now call the President’s attention to the fact that he has barely a year left in office as well as  from the distinct possibility of having his tenure dubbed the bloodiest in the annals of Nigerian history, the civil war years inclusive. It actually did a little more than that, as it pointed unmistakably to the fact that I am not, in any way being flippant, when I write here that the  time has come for Nigerians to ask  President Buhari the reason, or reasons, life has become so short and bruttish under his watch. We should equally ask Mr President how he intends to change this odious trajectory since, as they say, it is unwise to continue  to do things  the same way, and expect to have a different  outcome. Slightly over a year ago on 9 May, 2021, I wrote as follows on these pages: “Nigeria has always been reputed as having one of the best armies in Africa and has, for that reason, led many multi- national operations, both here in West Africa,  contributed  to United Nation’s peace keeping operations elsewhere”. “Unfortunately, that is now history as the Nigerian security forces is not only spread  thin, locally, in  many theatres of war,  but also made to keep peace over a huge swathe of territory where insecurity has become the order of the day”.  “Indeed, not too long ago, wives of some soldiers had cause to demonstrate, protesting their  husbands having to fight Boko Haram terrorists almost bare handed”. “That  was the  result  of  some military officers,  some of who have since been convicted,  stealing security funds with both hands. Add to the above, the ease with which some unpatriotic elements reveal plans and movements of our soldiers mostly for religious  reasons,  or by those who see the fight against  terrorists as an  attack on the North or on Muslims”. “Given these circumstances, it is no surprise that our soldiers have become somewhat overwhelmed with some of them turning tail on  battle field, abandoning their weapons, which then fall into enemy hands. Nigeria is thus fighting the insecurity war like she has her hands tied behind her backs despite the yeoman’s efforts of our soldiers who still put in their best in spite of the obvious disadvantages that confront them”. “If the above is the situation in areas like the Northeast where our soldiers are involved in asymetric war against terrorists, what of  the thousands of murderous herdsmen and bandits,  spread all  over Northern forests and those thousands who were funneled  into Southern forests during the Covid -19 lockdown  while Nigerian security forces looked the other way, and are now kidnapping and killing people all over the South? Yet there’s hardly any arraignment in courts of these serial murderers, and where there are, at all,  the cases are soon summarily terminated  on orders from above”. “But things will soon change as victims are about to start defending themselves and their ancestral lands against these mauruders, even if with the last pint of their blood”.   President Buhari: You need not seek foreign loans!     Obasanjo and his ‘touch of madness’     How 31 free food seekers die in Rivers church stampede   This will be the natural response by victims if President Buhari  will only continue to ask Nigerians to pray as antidote against AK 47 which these  untouchable terrorists, and bandits,  brandish all over the country without law enforcement agencies checking them as if Nigeria is a country without laws”. “The time has come for President Buhari to rule like he is President of the whole of Nigeria and, therefore, stop asking beleaguered communities, like Benue state, to continue to tolerate their killers who he described  as their neighbours”. Without mincing words, President Buhari has, through his  mismanagement of our  diversity, encouraged a massive rush into the country, of a  huge number of sahelian Fulanis from countries where terrorism has become second nature, and they come fully armed into Nigeria. This he did, not only when he  announced a visas on arrival policy for all Africans while attending the Aswan Forum for sustainable peace and development in Africa, which took place in Egypt, but mainly through his continuing  encouragement of open grazing by Fulani herdsmen despite the horrors they cause, as well as through his  directive to the Attorney – General of the federation to gazette a moribund, if not totally non existent, grazing routes all over the country. But these are not the only ways President Buhari has tacitly encouraged and, ipso facto, sparked insecurity in Nigeria. For reasons which cannot be far from ethnic and religious consainguity, his government, which trailed Nnamdi Kanu all the way to Kenya and has, since his rendition, hauled him before the courts, as well as followed Igboho of the Yoruba Nation fame all the way to Benin Republic, has not said a word beyond Attorney – General Malami giddily announcing, on 23 September 2021, that the government has nabbed 400 financiers of terrorism in the country. Listen to him:”The Federal Government has suceeded in blocking terrorism financing in Nigeria. It has also succeeded in identifying, and detaining, “high profile individuals” responsible for funding terrorists’ activities in the country”. That was after he had announced in May of the same year “that the Nigerian government was about to begin the prosecution of about 400 suspected Boko Haram financiers and was profiling some high-profile Nigerians strongly suspected to be financing terrorism for prosecution”. Speaking further, he said:”We have succeeded in identifying those that are responsible for funding terrorists. We have also blocked the leakages associated with funding and are embarking on aggressive investigation that is indeed impacting positively in terms of the fight against terrorism”. “But then, the truth of the matter is that investigation is ongoing, is advancing and for the purpose of investigation, I wouldn’t like to be pre-emptive in terms of making disclosures that would have the effect of undermining the successes we are recording as far as investigation is concerned”.”We have indeed obtained a legitimate court order taking into consideration what we have presented before the court and which made the court to, eventually, exercise its discretion in granting orders that we can have them in custody”. Not at all surprising, President Buhari’s Attorney – General has since then been in a literal trance. Mum has been the word since then  you would think Nigerian courts have shut down completely and her judges banished to Afghanistan.  But Nigerians are not deceived. They know the factors at work and how it appears that, in this administration,  nothing must ever touch a Northerner, especially,  if he/ she shares the same faith with the President. Or what in all decency should be more urgent than getting to the very root of terrorism funding in Nigeria? This is one reason  insecurity is  fated to be a recurring decimal during the Buhari administration. And this is one thing that baffles me about President Buhari. In 2014, when he was not yet the presidential candidate of the APC,  I had written, while canvassing his candidacy, that Nigeria needed him more than he needed Nigeria. Looking back now I hope to God I didnt rush to judgment or  how would, a foreign country, namely, the United Arab Republic ( UAE), jail 6 financiers of terrorism in Nigeria but a government headed by President Buhari would not  as much as let such people have their day in court, guilty or innocent? Is it that we just do not respect the rule of in Nigeria? The way things are going, if President Buhari would not now, even belatedly,  very actively commit himself to seriously reconsidering many of the steps he has taken so far, and which have had, possibly unintended consequences such as  increasing insecurity in the country and, proactively, make amends,  he may have no way of escaping a very harsh judgment of history. Life after office, as we have seen from some of our past leaders who are still on terra firma, can be truly cold and dreary. This is the reason I hope that the President who , unfortunately, has not only been a collateral victim of the failings of some of his very weak predecessors, but also suffered  some unfortunate events of his own like the massive drop in oil prices  experienced almost as soon as he took office, and not forgetting the economy, and life shattering, global Covid -19 pandemic, would give the advice here a thought, and reverse policies, or actions, which may, unfortunately, see his name on the opposite side of History. As he never ceases to promise,  he should endeavour to end this cycle of convulsive insecurity which has turned Nigeria into a killing field, and so, not hand it over to his successor. I wish him well.