This week, Nigeria’s two largest political parties – the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) – would elect or select their presidential flagbearers for next year’s general election. Going by constitutional requirements of spread, only one of those two individuals – out of a motley collection of clowns and contenders – stands a chance of becoming president. This should ordinarily be a straightforward process following each party’s rules. But we have seen that in this country nothing is ever straightforward. That’s why different interests and tendencies are trying every trick in the book to game the system. Every loophole is being exploited. All means whether free or fair would be deployed as long as they deliver the end they seek. It is the reason why in the name of ‘consensus.’ people who would ultimately face judgment on polling day, are doing everything to avoid elections at the primaries level. But all the intriguing is throwing up a wrench in the works that none of the ‘smart’ strategists are thinking of. It is called the error factor. I dare say the party that ends up producing President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor would be the one that makes fewer and less devastating errors. Not many are thinking of this factor because humans have an exaggerated estimation of their cleverness. In the last few weeks, we’ve seen a prime example of this with the fiasco surrounding attempts by the National Assembly to touch up Section 84 (8) of the recently-amended the Electoral Act. The initial amendment popularised Section 84 (12) which was an effort to limit the advantage enjoyed by the Executive at state and federal levels, by denying political appointees the right to vote or be voted for in the primaries, unless they resign from their positions. As an attempt at levelling the playing field, it was well received by many. However, in their euphoria at pulling this off, they executed an act of legislative amputation that inadvertently separated them from the process. Not just themselves, they excluded the president, governors and the whole battalion of ex-this and ex-that who constitute the army called statutory delegates. Amending Section 84 (12) was supposed to take away Executive advantage and balance things more in favour of the Legislative branch. Amazingly, a bunch of smart people in the House of Representatives and Senate read through the draft bill and passed it with a time bomb inserted. It went through the reconciliation stage and still they couldn’t see what was ticking away before their very eyes. By the time they realised their error, the legislative IED had blown off in the faces. The immediate consequence of the oversight that has cut statutory delegates from the ongoing process, is that the hands of governors have been strengthened more than ever before. Ad-hoc delegates elected in the last few days are specially picked by them and local godfathers in states not controlled by particular parties. They are selected not because of their sophistication or independent-mindedness, but based on absolute loyalty to those who chose them. This is one error that has already cost many legislative aspirants who have not kissed the local emperor’s ring. With the clock running down, and realising that their ‘beautiful bill’ was actually a monster in disguise, federal legislators rushed off an amendment of their error to Buhari, hoping he would favour them with his signature. The president, instead, took a leisurely trip to Abu Dhabi and left them to stew. Their agonies have made the headlines in the last few days, but the wily, old man is probably somewhere in the bowels of Aso Villa grinning and picking his teeth, remembering the time he asked them to yank off Section 84 (12). They even forced him to reluctantly part ways with his politically ambitious cabinet members. Truly, revenge is a dish best eaten ice cold. Make no mistake about it, the elimination of statutory delegates has affected the calculations of many. On the day he went to pick his nomination forms for the presidential race, one supporter of Senate President Ahmad Lawan boasted of the platoon of senators who were backing his bid. He didn’t know he was speaking of phantoms.   Adeleke’s dollars and pounds     Nation without statesmen     What manner of ‘consensus’?   It’s amusing that the one who supervised this disaster as head of the National Assembly is actually running for president! Is that supposed to be a special reward for incompetence? Is that a pointer to how he would run Nigeria if APC delegates give him the opportunity? Another potential error that may determine who becomes the next president is where he comes from. To some this is mundane, but we’ve seen from examples around the world that candidates don’t necessarily win on the strength of their CVs and competence alone; sometimes they triumph because of things as silly as likeability. So, while zoning may not rate as important for some, it could be a factor in these elections. The two leading parties have thrown the race open by selling forms to all who have shown interest – irrespective of their region. It isn’t a small matter in the context of Nigeria’s democratic development that a very strong possibility exists that after eight years of a presidency held by a Northerner, he could be succeeded by another from his region. It isn’t a small matter that one of the parties toying with such a prospect is the APC which had a gentleman’s agreement on power rotation back in 2014. Naturally, negative reactions would be more explosive in the ruling party over what would be seen as treachery. The opposition PDP calculates that offering another Northerner is its surest way back to power if, as is expected, the ruling party settles for a Southerner. But it underestimates the depth of sentiments driving power shift. It could pay the price of voter apathy towards its candidate right across the South next year. What many fail to understand is that primaries are only the beginning of the race. The finishing line is presidential election day in 2023. If you install your candidate by hook or crook and lose at the elections proper, you just won a pyrrhic victory. At APC’s recent National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting, Buhari admonished his party men against choosing candidates who cannot win elections. He equally warned them about acts of imposition that could divide their ranks. In the last few days, the media has been abuzz with talk of how he intends to issue a presidential decree ordering all aspirants to queue behind his anointed. Of course, much of this is spin sponsored by those whose only hope of getting the ticket is by such appointment. Those selling this narrative are quick to point to how Senator Abdullahi Adamu was installed as national chairman using consensus juju. When all was said and done, it was clear that those who forsook their ambition didn’t do so willingly. Even the refund that was promised them turned into another campaign promise. But the race for chairman ended within the party; Adamu didn’t have to face a jury of voters nationwide. Can such a process where Buhari is seen to have rammed his choice down everybody’s throat guarantee victory in nine months? That could be another grave miscalculation. There’s no system – affirmation or electoral contest – that produces 100% approval by all interested parties. But you’re assured of less flap and easier healing where people are allowed to make their choice freely and unfettered at the ballot box. It is especially important for APC not to make the unforced error because it is the one governing. It is usually the case that parties in power suffer loss of popularity because of their policy initiatives. The ruling party now has a record of over seven years that the opposition can attack. In 2023 it would be facing an increasingly frustrated electorate that is less than impressed with its performance on the economy and insecurity. In 2015, it was the relentless attack on Goodluck Jonathan’s record in those areas that toppled his administration. APC can blunt the looming blows by offering a candidate whose personality popularity can neutralise much of what would be thrown at it. As I mentioned earlier, PDP’s strategy of focusing on a Northern candidate as its victory key, to the exclusion of all else, could well turn out to be a disastrous mistake. By choosing this route it encourages its opponent to target it on basis of ethnicity and zoning – which are powerful emotional buttons to press. This ultimately takes the focus away from APC’s governance record. The next few days would be momentous for Nigeria and full of intrigues. Many schemes would be floated by the clever and conspiracy theories would overtake the land. In all of this I am reminded of former President Ibrahim Babangida who was so famous for his twisting and turning that he was nicknamed ‘Maradona.’ He ultimately dribbled himself into a cul-de-sac. He’s the perfect reminder that human wisdom is limited. The surest way to a happy outcome for all is giving every contestant a fair shake – whether in PDP or APC. Other than that, nine months from now many would be doing post mortems and remembering that this was the week they made the mistake that cost them the presidency.