A WhatsApp message has been making rounds in several groups claiming that Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, is giving N33,000 grants to Nigerians. The message, which is being shared in several WhatsApp groups reads, “*PROF YEMI OSINBAJO ₦33,000 GRANT FOR NIGERIANS.* *Hurry Now and Check if you are Eligible to Receive ₦33,000 Support Grant From VP YEMI OSINBAJO Campaign Support.* This Grant is Available To all Nigerians.” The message further provides a link to a website where interested candidates can submit their applications.  A review of the website reveals it is not a government website as it does not have the usual logo and insignias of Nigeria or the Vice President. The website has the heading “PROF YEMI OSINBAJO ₦33,000 FOR NIGERIANS” in green and contains a picture of the Vice President.  The message on the website reads: “Vice President PROF YEMI OSINBAJO on Monday 25th of April 2022. Offer a matching grant of ₦33,0000 to individuals to support youth and all Nigerians to solicit for your support upon declaration of my interest to run for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.”    “My idea for the introduction of Matching Grants to make Our Country to become self-reliant,” it adds.      Kidnappers demand N10m ransom from family of abducted widow     NDLEA seizes 203,879 Tramadol tabs in raids of 4 states     How Justice Mary Odili saved my political career, by Wike   It then goes ahead to ask people to fill out a form with their name, address, email and phone number.      Taking a deeper look at the website using the “Whois” domain lookup, it showed that the website was registered by Namecheap in Iceland on the 5th of February 2022.  The legitimate website of the Vice President has the insignia of the coat of arms and contains all the activities of the Vice President. A WhoIs domain search of Vice President Yemi Osibanjo’s website shows it was registered on 25 December 2017 in Lagos, Nigeria.             A Google search for legitimate news sources reporting on the Vice President’s N33,000 grant yielded no result, which is unusual because activities involving the Vice President are always reported in the media. Additionally, on May 3, the Senior Special Assistant, Media and Publicity to the Vice-President, Laolu Akande, in his verified Twitter handle, said that the website which claimed the Vice President is giving N33,000 grants is a scam and asked Nigerians to disregard it. The tweet reads: “If you have come across this notice below, please be advised it’s a scam. It is trending on some platforms including WhatsApp. Please ignore this & always rely only on official sources for any information regarding the Vice President or any FG related activities for that matter.” The Vice President is not offering an N33,000 grant to Nigerians. The message which is shared on several social messaging platforms is FALSE and intends to swindle the public. This Factcheck is executed by Justina Asishana, a Journalist with The Nation Newspaper and Code for Africa-trained Fact checker.