Famous film stars Ramsey Nouah and Funke Akindele-Bello were all smiles as they won big at the just concluded 2022 edition of the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards (AMVCA). The eighth edition of the movie awards ceremony attracted several industry practitioners and fans. The award show kicked off on Sunday, May 8, 2022, with series of event consisting of fashion runaway show, content creators brunch, young film makers day, culture and food festival day for eight days. The AMVCAs awards ceremony was the crescendo of the week as IK Osakioduwa and South Africa’ Bonang Matheba hosted the show. Osas Ighodaro won the Best Dressed Female at the event while Best Dressed Male was won by Denola Grey. Both actors got a cash price of N500,000 each. Pascal Aka and Raquel from the movie ‘Gold Coast Lounge’ won the Best Soundtrack category walking away with N1million. Nigerian actress, producer, Teniola Aladese won the Trailblazer award and smiled home with a cash price of N1m and also an extra gift of $2,000 dollars from the Hollywood star, Tasha Smith.   Here is the full list of winners for the AMVCA 2022: Best actress in a comedy – Funke Akindele Bello (Omo Ghetto: The Saga). Best actor in a comedy – Samuel Perry ‘Broda Shaggi’ (Dwindle). Best supporting actress – Omowunmi Dada (Country Hard). Best supporting actor – Odunlade Adekola (Jankariwo). Best actress in a drama – Osas Ighodaro (Rattlesnake). Best actor in a drama – Stan Nze (Rattlesnake: The Ahanna Story). Best short film or online video – Taiwo Ogunnimo (I am the prostitute Mama described). Best Indigenous language (Yoruba) – Alaise – David Akande, Demola Yusuf, Edgard Leroy. Best indigenous language (Hausa) – Voiceless – Rogers Ofime Best Indigenous language (Igbo) – Nne-Ka – Uche Nnanna Maduka. Best Indigenous language (Swahili) – Obambo (Freddy Feruzi). Best art director (Movie or TV Series) Tunji Afolayan – Amina   Full list of AMVCA 8 winners     Wike begs Lagos PDP for presidential ticket     Train attack: Terrorists release pregnant woman   Best costume designer – Millicent T. Jack (Amina). Best lighting designer – Matthew Yusuf (Nneka the pretty serpent). Best picture editor: Tunde Apalowo (Maria Ebun Pataki). Best sound editor: Jim Lively and James Nelson (Amina). Best sound track – Pascal Aka, Raquel – Gold Coast Lounge Best Makeup – Balogun Abiodun ( Omo Ghetto The Saga). Best Writer: Oiseomaye, Donald Tombia, Biodun Stephen (Introducing the Kujus). Best Cinematographer: Muhammed Atta Ahmed (Rattle Snake). Best movie Southern Africa: Hairareb – Dantagos Jimmy Melani. Best movie East Africa: The Girl In The Yellow Jumper – Morocco Omari Best movie West Africa: Collision Course – Bolanle Austen-Peters, Joseph Umoibom Best overall movie: Amina (Izu Ojukwu and Okey Ogunjiofor) Best Television series: (Drama or Comedy) The Mystic River – Rogers Ofime. The Multichoice talent factory: Engaito by Daisy Masembe Best Director: Ramsey Nouah Best Documentary: If Objects Could Speak – Saitabao Kaiyare, Mumo Liku Elena Schilling, Daniela Fritz, Ann Katrina Boberg. Best social online content creator – Oga Sabinus Best Africa Magic Original Drama series: Rishante – Dimbo Atiya. Best Africa Magic Original Comedy series: The Johnsons – Roger Ofime. Industry Merit Award – Taiwo Ajayo-Lycett Longest running TV show in Africa – Tinsel