Ahead of primaries, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has given deadlines to political parties on nomination and withdrawal of candidates. The electoral commission also foreclosed the adjustment of election timetable. In line with its guidelines, INEC has directed the parties to submit lists of delegates for elective offices to it, seven days to the date of the primary. Both the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) submitted designated centres for their national conventions to INEC yesterday. APC opted for the Eagle Square while the PDP chose the Velodrome at the Moshood Abiola Stadium in Abuja. It was learnt that unlike in the past, the commission decline to bend the rules so as not to distort the timelines for the 2023 poll. The commission has fixed the last day for withdrawal of candidate(s) and the replacement of withdrawn candidate(s) for July 15 (Presidential and National Assembly) and August 12 for governorship and Houses of Assembly.   EFCC arrests Fed Govt’s top accountant over N80b ‘fraud’     PDP urged to field indigene for Ikorodu Federal Constituency…     My experience under Buhari places me ahead of others, says…   Also, while the last day for submission of nomination forms for presidential and National Assembly election is August 8, the curtains will be drawn for governorship and Houses of Assembly on August 18. The publication of final list of nominated candidates will be on September 20 (Presidential and National Assembly elections) and October 4 for other strands. But the public campaign for the presidential and National Assembly elections will kick off on September 28 and that of the governorship and Houses of Assembly is from October 4. According to a top official of INEC, the parties have been notified of the timelines for appropriate guidance. The guidelines read in part: “In compliance with Article 4.5.1 of the INEC Regulations and Guidelines for the Conduct of Political Party Primaries, a political party that adopts the indirect primary mode, shall make available to the commission not later than seven days to the date of the primary, the list of persons that will form the delegates that are eligible to vote for nomination of the party candidate to contest every elective position. “ “The list of delegates shall be accompanied with the list of aspirants and the list of the party Electoral panel conducting the primary. “In compliance with Section 84(9-11) of the Electoral Act 2022, a political party that adopts the Consensus Primary mode shall make available to the commission copies of the written consent of all aspirants cleared for the position indicating their endorsement of the consensus candidate who shall then be ratified by a special congress or convention “In compliance with Section 84 of the Electoral Act 2022, primaries and voting by members or delegates of a political party to nominate candidates for elective positions shall hold at designated centres within the respective national, state, senatorial, federal and state constituencies. “Primaries held outside designated constituencies shall accordingly be invalid.”