The report of the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission, ICPC, on how members of the National Assembly divert funds meant for constituency projects is mind- boggling. While the National Assembly unlawfully inserts humongous amounts for constituency projects in the national budget, their members, in turn, allegedly appropriate the projects to themselves, and in some extreme cases, pay the budgeted sums into their private accounts, while the projects are abandoned or remain unexecuted. The constituents who elected such fraudulent legislators suffer a double whammy; for, while the tax-payers’ money for the project may have been stolen by their representatives, the projects due to the community, which have not been executed, are reported as having been performed by the same representatives, to the millennium developments agencies. So, while the person elected as gatekeeper has become a thief that steals from the family barn, he also becomes a tale bearer of a false dividend of democracy for his/her people. Yet, the primary responsibility of a legislator is law-making, not the execution of contracts, which seems to be more attractive to members of the National Assembly. Without equivocation section 4(2) of the 1999 constitution provides: “The National Assembly shall have power to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the federation or any part thereof with respect to any matter included in the Exclusive Legislative list set out in Part 1 of the Second Schedule to this Constitution.” But in the ‘interim constituency and executive projects tracking report of the ICPC’ published recently, the reverse seems to be the case. The report cited cases where legislators allegedly awarded contracts to themselves or their proxies. The report posited: “Budget insertion remains one of the egregious, yet illegally acceptable phenomenon that has distorted the nation’s developmental planning and implementation of developmental programmes.” It went further: “Analysing the 2021 National Budget alone across key sectors of education, water resources, health, power, science and technology, environment, works and agriculture, we found duplication to the tune of over N20 billion.”   2023 and the politics of PVCs     On dominant issues of 2023 elections     Corruption killing standards   If members of the National Assembly as alleged, were only engaged in distortion of the budget through duplication of projects, it would have been bad enough, but they are accused of more egregious abuses. One such report alleged that the: “contract for the construction and renovation of blocks of the classroom at the Federal University Staff School, Wukari, Taraba South Senatorial District, executed by a company owned and operated directly by Senator Emmanuel Bwacha”, was “haphazardly nominated, appropriated and executed in locations that have no need for such projects.” The report also indicted the representative of the Rivers West Senatorial District, over the supply of tricycles, tagged an empowerment programme. Apart from allegedly using his cronies to execute the contract, the report said: “while the contract was never performed, the sum of 30 million Naira was fully paid and shared.” In Osun West Senatorial District, an agricultural empowerment project was diverted to a private use. The report alleged that: “while the intended beneficiaries were trained, no cattle were given to them, instead, the lawmaker established a private ranch, using the cattle procured with government’s fund.” There are more of such reports. Having identified those who allegedly used their position as lawmakers for self-aggrandisement, the ICPC should take necessary legal steps to recover the monies allegedly stolen or misappropriated by the concerned persons. As a matter of fact, some of the reported cases are clearly fraudulent and those involved should be prosecuted to discourage others from toeing a similar path. Above all, the National Assembly on its own should introspect, and save members the temptation, by concentrating on its constitutional responsibility of law making, while allowing the executive branch to execute the laws they have made. Where this does not happen, Nigerians should put pressure on the government to stop this odious practice. We have always known that no other reason could be behind the idea of constituency projects as presently operated except the intent to shortchange Nigerians. So, the ICPC report has merely confirmed the general fear of Nigerians on the matter. The idea of constituency project is another manifestation of corruption, the bane of Nigeria’s underdevelopment. Unless it is aggressively addressed, underdevelopment will remain the nation’s albatross.