The Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST) and the National Population Commission (NPC) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the roll-out of a digitised Postcode for Nigeria. The digitised postcode when fully deployed is expected to assist in revenue generation, boost employment opportunities, improve economic activities and assist government to combat security challenges in the country. The Postmaster General of NIPOST, Dr. Ismail Adewusi, said the collaboration with NPC would open a new channel towards improving address system in the country and ensure all Nigerians are captured. Addressing newsmen at the Top Rank Hotel, Abuja, during the signing of the MoU, Adewusi said the present effort is aimed at transitioning the system to a digital platform to create more efficiency and functionality. He noted that such advanced addressing systems will promote the proper functioning of not only the Postal sector but the economic sector and the security system. He said: “Whereas NIPOST introduced a Postcode system in 1986 as part of efforts to enhance mail collection, processing, distribution and delivery, the present effort is aimed at transitioning the system to a digital platform to create more efficiency and functionality. “Of a certainty, such an advanced addressing system will promote the proper functioning of not just the Postal sector. It is a critical infrastructure for meeting the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, including poverty reduction, disease control and provision of basic services such as water and electricity.   Dangote to stop sourcing forex from CBN     Firm to implement agric road map to promote economic growth     Sugar sector focuses on growing of cane   “It remains a critical national infrastructure, especially in a developing country like ours where lack of street names and property numbering hinder the ability to meet public and business expectations. We are not unaware of the difficulties which service providers in Nigeria face, due to the lack of an efficient addressing system in the country. “The relentless drive to use new technologies and latest digital solutions, to manage operations more efficiently, at less cost, increased productivity, and better quality of service, is a major challenge for managers, especially in a large and complex networked industry that delivers a wide range of products and services”. Dr Adewusi further stated that with the cooperation and support of the NPC, NIPOST embarked on the process of enhancing the Postcode, leveraging technology. He said NIPOST drew up entities in a manner that ensures every part of the country is effectively captured, using a systematic framework of alpha-numeric characters from the State, Local Government Areas, Postcode Districts, Postcode Areas and Postcode Units. Listing some of the benefits of the postcode, the Postmaster General said it will enhance better sorting, delivery of mail and postal services. “Better response to emergencies by security agencies, thereby reducing crimes like banditry, kidnapping and Internet scams. Effective healthcare delivery system. Effective revenue and tax collections. Utility bills distribution. “Enable entrepreneurs or private business owners to have effective interaction with their clients. Facilitates easy locating and identifying places. Seamless delivery of goods ordered through the Internet (e-commerce). Aids Address Verification of places like Banks. It gives people a sense of recognition and ownership”, he added. The Chairman of the National Population Commission (NPC), Nasir Kwarra said the Commission is delighted to share its data as primary data for the creation of the postcode area, postcode districts and other entities to design a digitalised postcode framework to facilitate the sorting and transmission of mails delivery and improve national addressing standard.