The global mishandled baggage rate spiked by 24 per  cent  to 4.35 bags per 1000 passengers last year as the industry recovers from the pandemic, according to the SITA Baggage IT Insights 2022. The report shows passenger traffic has evolved since 2020, with most of last year’s recovery being driven by domestic travel, but the resumption of international and long-haul flights is contributing to an increase in mishandling. Transfer bags continue to account for most mishandled bags. An increase in long-haul flights with connections in 2021 has pushed up the bags delayed at transfer to 41 percent , which is a  four  points increase from 2020. The mishandling rate at the global level on international routes is 8.7 per cent, yet only 1.85 per cent for domestic routes. Put differently, at a global level, the likelihood of mishandling a bag is about 4.7 times higher on international routes compared to domestic routes. Delayed bags accounted for 71 per cent  of mishandled bags last year – a  two  points increase from 2020. At the same time, the number of lost and stolen bags increased slightly to six percent , while those damaged and pilfered decreased to 23 percent .   ‘Manufacturers spend N77.22b on alternative energy’     Nigeria has huge opportunity in mango export, say experts     CBN assures EKO DisCo of support to improve power sector   Airlines, ground handlers, and airports have downsized to maintain viability during the pandemic, which has impacted resources and expertise dedicated to baggage management. Unaddressed, this challenge may see the mishandling rate continuing to creep up and become much higher than it was pre-pandemic. Chief Executive Officer, SITA, David Lavorel, said: “The industry needs to do more with less. As we emerge from the pandemic, our customers’ focus remains on safely managing the end-to-end transport of passengers’ baggage, but now they must also reduce the total cost and training required. There is significant pressure to increase operational efficiency, which is accelerating digitalisation.” Last year’s investment in self-service initiatives continued to increase. A large majority of airports and almost airlines are prioritising touchless bag tagging options that rely on kiosks and passengers’ mobile devices. Implementation of unassisted bag drop is increasing, with 90 per cent  of airlines and three-quarters of airports planning to make touchless unassisted self-bag drop available by 2024. Digitalisation also ensures that the recovery progresses efficiently, saving resources and ensuring operations can quickly adapt to fluctuating passenger numbers. There is no better way to ensure efficiency in baggage than to avoid mishandling in the first place, preventing the additional costs and resources required to repatriate bags to their owners. “SITA has worked to refine its baggage portfolio to do just that, with the introduction of innovative solutions such as SITA WorldTracer Lost and Found Property, an artificial intelligence-enabled solution that solves a million-dollar headache for the air transport industry: how to quickly return items left behind on aircraft or in airports to their owners. Using cutting-edge technology such as computer vision, machine learning, and natural language processing, WorldTracer Lost and Found Property searches a global database of images and descriptions to match the found item to a missing item report. “We will continue to collaborate and support the industry to reduce mishandled baggage rates while driving operational efficiencies and sustainable solutions when needed the most,” said Lavorel.