Despite the huge uptake of technology in the country, awareness about the availability of various security technology solutions is still low, a technology firm, Virdi Nigeria, has said. Speaking with The Nation on the sidelines of the Securex West Africa Exhibition in Lagos, the Regional Sales Director, Middle East and Africa (MEA), Virdi Middle East, Dubai, Mr. Manzoor Fatmi, said the market for technology is huge but added that awareness around the knowledge of security solutions remained low. “What we understand is that Nigeria is a huge potential market. I will not say due the security concerns or whatever, because this market is still, I will say, as far as technology is concerned, is not tapped by the major vendors at present; the demand is very high which I have noticed. Besides this, not only the demand, but the awareness about security technology the people are not really up to the level with other regions. But the people are really interested to know. This is the best point I found here,” he said in response to how the company’s solution could be deployed to tackle Nigeria’s homeland insecurity. He said the company is certified by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) of the United States and manufactures biometric devices based on 100 per cent fake fingerprint and face detection technology. “This is one of the very unique points. The sensor is approved from FBI in the US. That is the reason we claim that our product is based on hundred per cent fake fingerprint detection technology,” he said.   OPPO pushes to increase market share     Coin doctor named one of ‘100 most influential young…     ‘Exhibitions good for economic growth’   He said the ability of Virdi biometric devices to detect fake and live fingerprints remains one of the company’s strongest points. Virdi Nigeria is the West African arm of Union Community, a global leader in security software and contactless multimodal biometric solutions and biometric devices along with face recognition, access control, time and attendance management, visitor and meal management solutions. He urged both the private public sectors to ensure that the security products they use in routine operations are also secure. According to him, if a company uses a security product to secure some of its areas, the company should be sure that the product is also secure. He said: “People don’t think about this point. This is one of the challenges that I saw. Users don’t realise this. You are paying a huge amount for a nice, beautiful device and at the end of the day, the device is not secure. What is the use of the amount which you are spending, actually?” Mr. Fatmi, who also spoke about the face recognition technology solution provided by Virdi Nigeria, said: “We have a very good facial recognition model which is purely touchles, just show your face within a distance of fifteen centimetres and it recognises the face. Presently, we also have a model that can detect up to four faces simultaneously at a distance of three metres.”   He further explained that the company’s time and attendance solution, vTime, addresses the issue of manipulation in time and attendance management and helps organisations, especially manufacturing companies to save cost, maximise operational efficiency and enhance user convenience.