Operatives attached to the Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT) have arrested two herders, Abdulrahman Lolo, 20, and Mohammed Sanni, 26, over alleged kidnap of a man, Jibril Saidu, 35, in Kaduna State. The suspects allegedly kidnapped their victim at Bandoko near Katari, along the Kaduna-Abuja Highway, Kachia Local Government Area on April 29. They were said to have stormed the village around 11:30pm with the aim of kidnapping a woman who sells Fura, in order to rape her but changed their mind after meeting her husband at home whom they took captive. The Nation gathered that the suspects had monitored the women before they eventually attacked that night and had planned to move her into the notorious Gbadoko forest where they would gang-rape her. However, when they broke into her home, they found the woman with her husband and went further to demand the key to his motorcycle, stripped, bound and blindfolded the man before taking him hostage. According to information, the suspects went away with the man and his motorcycle, adding that the man’s mother raised the alarm as soon as they left his premises. “The mother of the husband raised the alarm and the residents came out but could not go after the invaders fearing that they may be armed. “The villagers immediately organised local vigilantes to secure the community and then sent a distress call to the IRT operatives attached to Operation Puff Adder for urgent action. “When the police arrived, the villagers assisted in showing them directions and they chased after the kidnappers. Around 5am on April 30, the police officers were able to trace the invaders into their hideout at Gbadoko forest where the suspects on sighting the police officers, abandoned their victim and motorcycle and fled into the thick forest.   Italy, Dubai-bound drugs intercepted in Lagos      The squandering of a Goodluck     Buhari’s thunderbolt   “The police officers continue their chase after them and were able to arrest one of the kidnappers, Abdulrahman Lolo, a 20-year-old herder,” said a source. From Lolo’s interrogation and further investigations, operatives arrested Sanni, while efforts were on to apprehend other fleeing members of the gang. In his confessional statement, Lolo said: “I and one Abubarka Baya rear cows in the same village. Abubakar asked me to follow him to a Fulani ruga settlement in the same area. Our plan is to abduct a woman for the purpose of raping her, but it turned out to be kidnapping of her husband. “We only made use of torchlights, cutlasses and sticks, not gun. Others who went together with me for the operation are: Sani, Abubakar, Umar and Seif. All of us are boys of Alhaji Lolo of Gadam Mallam-Maman. “The other boys mentioned have been going out for operations before, but this is my own first time. The role I played was to mount road and pass information to other members who escaped when police chased us.” Commending the police for rescuing him, the victim said the suspects had threatened to kill him if he failed to cooperate with them. Jibril said: “An unidentified group of persons invaded my house, flashed torchlights in my eyes and I could not see. They threatened to kill me and my family if I do not cooperate with them. They ordered me to remove my cloths, and at the same time, requested for the key of my motorcycle, which I quickly surrendered to them. “They used my cloths to blindfold my eyes and tied my two hands to the back. They led me out of the house to my bike and drove me away. I thank the IRT men for rescuing me.” Confirming the arrests police spokesman, CSP Muyiwa Adejobi, said the Inspector-General of Police (IG) Alkali Usman, has directed the Commander of IRT, DCP Olatunji Disu, to ensure prompt prosecution of all cases and ensure peace returned to Abuja-Kaduna highway. Adejobi noted that, police officers were more effective when members of the public provide them useful and timely information.