Kazim Adeoti, the husband of actress Mercy Aigbe, has cleared the air on recent developments with his marital status. Adeoti married Aigbe last year but his first wife, Olofunsho Asiwaju, has taken a swipe at the movie star for allegedly videoing the house she claimed to have “built’ Their husband however debunked the claim, stating he actually built the house himself. He admitted his wives contributed to the furnishing of the house but he made a partial refund to his first wife. He said that his first wife left him no choice but to marry another wife when she decided to permanently relocate to the US. According to him: “I have read many things that have been written about me and my family. Many of which are fabricated lies and some directly from my first wife ( which understandably is angry I married a second wife) “At this point, it is necessary I put the records straight. I have two wives. One lives in the US and the other lives here with me in Nigeria. As a matter of fact, I just got back from America three days ago where I spent quality time with my family and tried to mend fences with my first wife who is obviously still angry I married a second wife (A move my religion permits as a Muslim) “And talking about being a Muslim and a responsible man, I make sure nine of my family in the US or in Nigeria is suffering. It is laughable that some people said I have abandoned my US family in as much as I travel to see them often “For the record, I ensure my US family gets $1,500 from 2016 until recently when I reviewed it to $1000 because our daughter is now in the private University and I have been solely responsible for her school fees and upkeep.   I will deal with any girl who tries to hurt my sons –…     Otobo renews battle with Apostle Suleman, releases amorous…     I may die soon, says Elon Musk   “In as much as there is nothing bad in a husband and wife building a house together, in my case, we did not. I built the house by myself. “When I was furnishing the house, she bought some furnishing materials and part of the money. I have refunded. My second wife had added some furnishing to the house as well. “It is not in my character to speak ill of people who were once friends not to talk of my first wife (who is still my wife as we speak). I will not speak ill of her for the sake of good and bad times that we shared and the good kids that God gave us. “It is understandable that my first wife is unhappy about getting a second wife but she left me no choice when she relocated permanently to the US. “I am a Muslim and Islam permits me to marry more than one wife as long as I take care of them and I don’t maltreat them. I can stand before God and man that as a man I have done my best not to maltreat them. “And I will not paint my first wife bad no matter what or use foul language on her and her family (who have been with us all through this journey) “When she came to Nigeria recently, (she, myself, her family and mine had a zoom meeting, we didn’t see each other physically). and our meeting was open, honest and respectful . “Many of them are surprised at the turn of events and the dragging of family names in the mud. But as it is, we have to leave everything in the hands of God and let God continue to guide us and reward us all.“