There is disquiet in Niger All Progressives Congress (APC) over the position of the State chairman, Alhaji Haliru Jikantoro, that Governor Abubakar Sani- Bello is the only candidate recognised for Niger North senatorial poll. Some members believe Jikantoro may have been compromised to the point would not give other aspirants a level-playing ground. They vowed to oppose moves by the APC chair to adopt the Governor as a consensus candidate, insisting Sani-Bello must go through primary with other aspirants. Jikantoro, in a video seen by The Nation, described Sani- Bello as his only candidate for the Niger North Senatorial seat. He spoke in Hausa language when he received a group in support of the Governor’s aspiration in his residence. “I can confidently beat my chest and go against anyone that wants to stand in Lolo’s way. Ordinarily, I shouldn’t have come out openly to endorse him but I am saying I support Lolo (the Governor) and I asked that the world be informed of my decision. I am not only in support but I am at the forefront,” he said in the video.   BREAKING: Appeal Court sets aside judgment voiding Section…     ‘N22b tramadol’: Bizman sues NDLEA, demands…     Ortom to Miyetti Allah: we’ll meet in court   But some APC members stated as a chairman, he should remain neutral stand and not openly endorse any aspirant. The Governor has indicated interest in contesting for the Niger East Senatorial seat. He is up in arms with the incumbent Senator Aliyu Abdullahi Sabi. The duo’s aspiration has divided supporters in Niger North senatorial district. Last week, leaders of the 87 wards in eight local government areas of the district endorsed Sabi for a third term after passing a vote of confidence in his performances in the 8th and 9th Assembly. They said that Sabi’s responsiveness and quality transformation in the Senate in the last seven years have transformed the zone and improved the welfare of his constituents. Also, 378 APC members from wards in Kontagora local government area endorsed the Governor, saying he is competent and worthy to represent the zone in the Senate.