The Federal Fire Service (FFS) has condemned the attack on Dei-Dei area fire station in Abuja by angry mob, following the unrest at building material market on Wednesday. The FFS Public Relation’s Officer, Mr Paul Abraham, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that  the attack by the hoodlums led to the destruction of several parts of the station and the station’s firefighting trucks. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Dei-Dei International Building Material Market, experienced a civil unrest at the early hours of Wednesday which led to the destruction of property. FCT Minister Mohammad Bello, had also ordered the indefinite closure of the market,  following a clash between commercial motorcyclists and the traders. Abraham said that FFS Controller General, Abdulganiyu Jaji, had decried the attack emphasising that men of the service were determined to save lives and property. “Firefighters have a statutory duty to protect lives and property even in the face of danger. “It is on this note that it is unacceptable and inexcusable to attack gallant men who at the expense of their lives turned out to put under control the self induced fire. “No Nigerian has the right to take laws into his or her hands talk more of vandalizing firefighting equipment, threatening firemen as well as tampering with private property,” he said.   FCT minister orders indefinite closure of Dei-Dei market     Police urge Zamfara religious leaders to preach peace,…     Troops kill notorious kingpin, arrest three suspects, rescue…   The PRO said that the Dei-Dei command received a distressed call from the market association chairman regarding the arson ongoing in the market. He explained that men of the service said that they would only turn out to the scene of fire if they were protected by security operatives who were yet to be on ground at that time. He said that while the firemen were on standby waiting for the arrival of security operatives, a mob approached the fire station and began attacking firefighters who were ready to be deployed. He said that the firemen eventually turned out to the chaotic scene to put the fire under control with the presence of security operatives. NAN also reports that the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola alongside FFS CG had advocated that firefighters be accompanied by armed security operatives to prevent the incessant attack on firefighters during rescue operations. The spokesman said that the CG commended the gallant firefighters for their act of bravery which went a long way in saving lives and property worth billions of naira from the inferno. Jaji also sympathised with persons who got injured during the crisis. (NAN)