Lagos Aviation Academy (LAA) has received the award of the Best Training School for the Year during the Nigeria Tourism Awards in Lagos. The awards also known as the Balearica is held yearly by Mr. Efetobo Awhana. The Academy Director/Chairman of the Association of Approved Aviation Training Organisations in Nigeria (AATON) Mr Bankole Bernard: “It is an honour for us at Lagos Aviation Academy to have been named the Best Training School in Nigeria. This feat is a testament to our hard work and dedication to excellence.’’ Bernard, represented by the academy’s spokesperson Ms. Olamide Oni, added: “This award is dedicated to our staff and students, the regulatory bodies, our partners and everyone who has contributed to our success as an institution . While I thank the organisers for this recognition, I would like to also lend our voice on the need to maintain standards and professionalism in the aviation training space.” Awhana said: “To further grow tourism, we need to appreciate those who grow the standards because the industry cannot grow without raising the standards. I urge recipients of these awards to continue to spread the campaign for the promotion of domestic tourism, God has endowed us well enough.”   ValueJets Airlines for demonstration flights     Consolidating recovery efforts for global carriers     Wanted: Infrastructure upgrade for airports   LAA General Manager, Ms Chinasa Mbene, added: “This is the first of its kind for us and we are excited about this feat. It could not have come at a better time as we have not only expanded over the years but also clinched the award of the Best Training School upon entering our fifth year in business. This award will further fuel our passion for raising quality professionals in the industry and we will continuously raise the bar of excellence.” LAA is an IATA-Authorised Training Centre (ATC), the only certified Amadeus Training Partner in Nigeria, and an NCAA Approved Training Organisation (ATO) in the central district of Lagos Mainland. The Academy started operations in the year 2017, with the mission to raise competent aviation professionals in the industry. Lagos Aviation Academy is situated in the central district of Lagos Mainland. The Academy commenced operations in the year 2017, with a vision to raise competent aviation professionals in the industry. In its five years of existence, the Academy has produced IATA Overall Best Performers in 2018, 2019, 2021 and most recently in 2022. LAA offers industry-wide training courses as well as management training. Its passion for building competence has also aided the Academy’s specialised courses that combine modules in Aviation, Management, and Personal effectiveness.