After months of hide and seek, former President Goodluck Jonathan may have finally joined the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential race. A group of nomadic herders and Almajiris Community in Nigeria led by Ibrahim Abdullahi picked the expression of interest and nomination forms for the former President around 6:30 pm on Monday. Addressing journalists after picking the form , Abdullahi said: “I represent two of the most vulnerable communities in our country. The nomadic pastoralists and the almajari communities have decided to purchase this form for our former president, Dr Goodluck Ebele Jonathan to come back and rule this country and continue with the good work he has started. “You may recall that during Goodluck Jonathan’s era, he was the first President since the independence of Nigeria who has found it expedient, who was magnanimous enough to remember the almajari community, he brought a comprehensive policy of reformation and integration of the almajari into the mainstream educational system in Nigeria.   Soludo: Too early to slumber     Akeredolu, deputy, aides at war over choice of candidates     Will Buhari, Emefiele sacrifice CBN for 2023?    “It was the dream and the vision of President Goodluck Jonathan that if that program had continued it would one day produce from the Almajiri system of education; Doctors, engineers. Unfortunately, that program was kept aside as soon as he left. “Other parts of the community ( the vulnerable community) that Goodluck Jonathan wanted to give a sense of belonging was the fulani community, the nomadic pastoralist.” Eulogising the former leader, Abdullahi said if the present administration has judiciously utilised the N60 billion Jonathan set in the Central Bank of Nigeria(CBN) which was to be used to develop livestock in Nigeria, the country would have been self-sufficient in livestock. The nomadic leader said the good work of the former President made them sell their cows to raise the money for the purchase of the forms. On the party membership status of the former President, the Fulani leader said, “Yes President Goodluck Jonathan is a member of APC.”