Senator Abdulaziz Nyako has emerged winner of the All Progressives Congress (APC) senatorial primary for Adamawa central zone. Senator Isyaku Abbo won the APC senatorial ticket for Adamawa North senatorial zone. Our correspondent however gathered the Adamawa South Senatorial primary of the APC was disrupted following allegation of vote buying. Declaring Abdulaziz Nyako winner of the Adamawa Central primary, Chairman of the election committee, Dr. Muazu Shehu, said Nyako polled 292 votes. The electoral committee chairman announced Abdullahi Musa as runner-up with 72 vote while Dr. Umar Bindir got 13 votes. Nyako will face Adamawa Speaker Aminu Iya Abbas of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2023.   Rivers: Wike’s seven years of purposeful leadership     Ogun PDP: Fresh crisis as factions renew rivalry over guber…     2023: Protests trail APC guber primaries as suspended priest…   Abbo defeated his immediate predecessor, Senator Binta Masi Garba and a top businessman, Hamisu Idris Medugu, among others. He polled 137 votes to beat Hamisu Medugu who got 100 votes and Binta Garba who received 46 votes. The victory will bring Abbo face to face with Reverend Amos Yohanna, the candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the general election. The conclusion of the Adamawa Central and Adamawa North APC senatorial primaries contrasts with that of the southern zone of the state which was disrupted over alleged vote buying. In Adamawa Souty, five contestants accused Engr Samaila Numan of having induced elegates with money. The five aspirants: Barr Bala Silas Sanga, Senator Ahmad Moallayidi Abubakar, Bridget Zidon, Sani Jada, and Senator Grace Bent, who addressed reporters, accused Samaila Numan of violating the electoral law. They threatened to withdraw from the race and wrote a petition to that effect, insisting that Ismaila Numan’s agent had displayed an open vote inducement from delegates. The APC Election Committee for the primary responded by suspending the Adamawa South APC senatorial primary.