Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola is certain his achievements in the last three and half years will give the All Progressives Congress (APC) victory in the July 16 election. The governor said while he has no money to purchase private jets for monarchs or hard currencies to splash around for citizens, he is endowed with the capacity to transform Osun through good governance. Oyetola spoke at the palace of the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi, during the kick -off of his re-election campaign in Ile-Ife. He said the state was too sophisticated to be governed by ‘kindergarten politicians seeking to experiment with Osun’. He said: “I am happy the Ooni knows that I have good intention to govern this state. I may not be able to buy private jets, but I have all it takes to fix Osun. I don’t have hard currencies to splash around, and I don’t believe in fire-for-fire approach, but I am confident of victory in the next governorship election because of the modest achievements of our administration and the wide acceptance from our people in the last three-and-a-half years. “What we have done across sectors is evident for people to see. We have proven that Osun is in safe hands in view of the equitable distribution of resources that had culminated into the development that our people have been witnessing in the nooks and crannies of the state. “Osun is too sophisticated for kindergarten politicians to govern. It is costly to allow such people experiment with Osun. In view of the way we have been managing the meagre resources at our disposal, coupled with the attendant challenges that we have successfully surmounted since assumption of office, it is instructive for discerning minds to know that governance is a serious task that cannot be left in the hands of mediocres. “We will stop at nothing to ensure that dividends of democracy are equitably spread across the nooks and crannies of the state, just as we have spread our health and infrastructure interventions around, among many other interventions.”   Asiwaju Tinubu: The experienced candidate Nigeria needs!     IPOB asks Kumuyi to call off Aba crusade     Kidnapped victims’ families kick against planned train…   Oba Ogunwusi hailed Oyetola for justifying the mandate of Osun people, saying he had done excellently well across sectors. He said: “We thank the governor for doing so much great works with less noise. Quietly but steadily, he has set the state in a progressive path. You are doing excellently well, and we pray God to continue to support your quest to see Osun develop. It is indeed true that your first term had brought so many goodies to citizens, and we pray God to grant your desire to serve the state for second term.” National Secretary of the APC Otunba Iyiola Omisore, who hails from Ife, urged his kinsmen to appreciate Oyetola through their votes. State Chairman of APC Prince Gboyega Famodun thanked the people for their cooperation and support for the Oyetola-led administration. He added that Oyetola remains the best candidate that will deliver good leadership and progress for Osun. “This is the party and the governor that can assure our progress. Others who are parading themselves as governorship candidates have nothing to offer the state,” Famodun said. Senate Spokesperson and Director-General of the Osun APC Campaign Council, Senator Ajibola Basiru, described the decision to kick-off the campaign in Ife as symbolic and strategic. According to him, the good works of Governor Oyetola, and the prayers he has received from Ife, will earn him victory in the July 16 governorship election. Shortly after the session in the palace, Oyetola headed to Enuwa Square where he addressed party members, supporters and esidents of Ife.