Wine Nation, an elite Cognac liquor wine shop that offers the best premium and affordable drinks in Nigeria out of its main store in Lagos, the country’s bustling commercial hub, is working to add a sit-in bar to its exquisite offerings. The sit-in bar will give Wine Nation’s clients an opportunity to enjoy a drink of their choice Cognac, Champagne, wines, whisky, spirits, beer & ciders, and soft drinks in a cosy and inviting space. Located on the second floor of the Wine Nation building, devoid of the usual loud noise that characterises most bars across Lagos, the bar boasts a serene ambience conducive for a heart-to-heart or business chat. Plus, there is a smoking lounge removed from the drinking area so as not to inconvenience clients who do not enjoy the smell of cigarettes. Wine Nation, since it opened for business in Africa’s largest economy, has carved a distinctive niche in the market for itself as it continues to give its growing list of patrons exactly what they want – quality and class. With its stock of an extensive range of the world’s finest selection of tastefully refreshing wines, whiskeys, spirits and gins for every occasion, Wine Nation offers to take care of your drinks provision while you focus on other aspects of your upcoming event. Positive reviews have continued to roll in since it opened for business, but Wine Nation is not resting on its laurels. The work-in-progress sit-in bar section is a testimony to this.   ‘We have to restructure agriculture to win’     Prince Omoha, others named as 2021 impactful CEOs     ‘We were forced to pay claims on #ENDSARS protests’   “We are looking to appeal to the corporate Nigerians, people in the older age group, entertainers, families, and lovers of simplicity with a touch of class. So we have distinctive settings giving ambient atmosphere, great lighting fixtures to illuminate the senses and to energize your experience,” says Charles Obinna, Chief Executive Officer of Wine Nation. The CEO says the addition of the bar is inspired by the burning desire to give clients of Wine Nation a unique feel to the brand. Whereas Wine Nation continues to run its well-stocked store of the best quality wines, whiskeys, spirits and other assorted range of alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, it wants its patrons to now walk in, sit in and take a sip. “Whether you are looking for several bottles of inexpensive everyday wine or alcoholic/non-alcoholic beverages, we provide the optimum selection and experience. Our fast and reliable service by our professional staff provide advice and guidance at each step of the way,” Obinna says. With its main store located in upscale Admiralty Way, Lekki, Lagos, Wine Nation plans to open stores at Victoria Island and Ajah, Lagos. On what stands Wine Nation out from other wine shops, Obinna said only an experience would convince you. “Every shop is unique in its own right and inspiration is drawn within/without. However, for us at Wine Nation, we believe that only an experience will do the conviction. Taste and be hooked. A taste of our direct sourced products reveals truth: Wine Nation, the difference is clear,” he said.