The spate of oil majors divesting their assets from the oil and gas industry has continued to be a source of concern to stakeholders. This is because of the economic effects such action may leave on the industry. The recent move by TotalEnergies to sell its 10 per cent stake in the Joint Venture with Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) and the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited is the latest of such trend. Under this arrangement, TotalEnergies will be disposing of her interest in 13 onshore fields and three in shallow water, which produces over 20,000 barrels of oil daily. The sale also includes infrastructure such as 3,500 kilometres of pipelines connecting to two key crude export terminals- Bonny and Forcados.The firm, however, opted to keep Oil Mining Licences (OML) 23 and 28 and its interest in the associated gas pipeline network that feeds Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG). Shell is also not left out in the asset sale blues. Until it was put on hold owing to pending litigation, Shell had opened talks with the government last year about selling its stake in the onshore fields, where it has been active since the 1930s. For the firm, these measures are part of its global drive to reduce its carbon emissions and transmute to a clean energy firm by 2050. The Anglo-Dutch company has stakes in 19 oil mining leases in the onshore oil and gas joint venture deals involving NNPC and others. Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria (SPDC), onshore assets put on sale, the industry sources said, were valued at $3 billion. Shell operates SPDC and holds a 30 per cent stake in the venture. The NNPC holds 55 per cent TotalEnergies has 10 per cent and ENI five per cent. On February 25, ExxonMobil announced it had reached an agreement to sell its equity interest in Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited to Seplat Energy, an independent oil and gas company, through its subsidiary Seplat Energy Offshore Limited. The valued was put at $1.6 billion.   ‘Nigeria over due for full deregulation, subsidy removal’     Making full digitalisation a reality     Pressure on APC governors over tickets for Senators, Reps   “This sale will allow us to prioritise competitively advantaged investments in our strategic assets, and it supports the government’s efforts to grow its oil and gas operations,” said Liam Mallon, president, ExxonMobil Upstream Oil and Gas. He added: “We value the relationships we have spent decades building with the government and people of Nigeria, which will continue as we maximise the value from our deepwater operations.” According to the statement on the firm’s website, “when finalised, the sale will include the Mobil Development Nigeria and Mobil Exploration Nigeria equity ownership of Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited, which holds a 40 per cent take in four oil mining licenc   es, including more than 90 shallow-water and onshore platforms and 300 producing wells.” The firm, however, explained that it will maintain a significant deepwater presence in Nigeria, including interests in the Erha, Usan and Bonga developments via Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited and Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria (Deepwater) Limited. The sale, the company hopes, would be concluded later in the year after regulatory approvals. Why sell off? Findings have shown that the sell off by IOCs is not unconnected with the protracted issues most of them are having with their host communities, including damages to their facilities and theft of same. For instance, the IOCs have struggled for years with spills in the Niger Delta due to pipeline theft and sabotage as well as operational issues, leading to costly repairs and high-profile lawsuits. Besides, the position of most IOC is to transmit their operations into cleaner energy base. This accounts for why investments are dwindling in the sector. NNPC Stakeholders have, however, commended the NNPC for rising to the occasion in such instances of equity sell off. This effort, it is believed, has helped to preserve the country’s interests in all of these JVs. For instance, the ExxonMobil asset sale has been kept on hold following the intervention of the NNPC and its desire to exercise its Right of Pre-emption as contained in Joint Operating Agreement (JOA) of the JV. Right of pre-emption is a legal right to parties in a joint venture to be the first to be considered for any planned sale or take-over of assets in the JVs, if either party chose to trade them off. In exercising this right, sources say the regulator could have acted in line with the new era which will focus on building the long-term profitability of the NNPC Limited.  The Managing Director, NNPC, Mele Kyari, reportedly reiterated its resolve to take over the ExxonMobil’s share of the assets.