The Deeper Life high school saga wherein a junior student, Don-Davis Archibong accused some senior students and teachers of molestation and abuse has finally been laid to rest by all the parties involved. In a peace and reconciliation reception organised by Deeper Life High School on Friday, which is part of the terms of settlement, Don-Davis’ mother, Deborah Archibong who spoke with newsmen after the novelty match, expressed happiness that all the children involved in the case are alive to witness the occasion. She recalled that her son, Don-Davis came to Deeper Life High School because of the sound moral standard and discipline the school is known for. Mrs. Archibong appreciated the teachers, students and the principal for the cooperation, noting that she has seen Christ in all of them. “I am honestly happy because all the children involved are alive and some parents watching us may be crying but I give God the glory. This is what the body of Christ is all about. “Let us forget the devil came in, everything will be fine. The good news I want to trend from social media is that I like the cooperation of teachers, principal and every other person. When I came in I was wearing tight because I thought it would be anyhow but I see Christ in every one of them. I know that Deeper Life High school has come to stay,” Deborah Archibong said. At the Peace and Reconciliation Reception, the lead counsel to Deeper Life High School, Taiwo Kupolati SAN, commended the High Court Judge, Ntong Ntong for initiating the peace process.   Accord Party guber aspirant promises to rebuild Abia in four…     Delta 2023: Urhobo media group sue for peace among guber…     Soludo celebrates Obi of Onitsha at 81, 20 years on throne   Kupolati also appreciated all the parties for embracing peace and advised parents to seek and boldly enforce peace as anybody who does not have peace is not entitled to good life. “The Honourable Judge suggested that the parties should settle the case outside court. It is to the glory of God that after two conferences, both parties and individuals concerned; the school, and the children involved, came together to reconcile. “I want us to know that as parents we must seek and boldly enforce peace because he who does not have peace is not entitled to good life.  I thank Deborah Archibong so much for agreeing to have this matter resolved at no financial cost because of the future of the children. I thank you for your understanding. All the bad memories and negative publicity are gone.” In his words, the lawyer who represented the claimant, Sampson Awoji, thanked Deeper Life High school for keeping to the terms of settlement. Earlier in his remark, the State Overseer of Deeper Life Bible Church, Akwa Ibom Pastor Emmanuel Amaeze, represented by Pastor Timothy Adewuyi, urged everybody to learn how to live in peace. The highpoint of the peace and reconciliation reception was the presentation of memorabilia to Don-Davis Archibong as a parting gift from the Deeper Life High School. It would be recalled Don-Davis Archibong’s parents in a suit no: HU/197/2021 had sued two senior students of Deeper Life High School, Uyo Campus, Shalom Ibikunle and Ola Feyisetan, the Principal Mrs. Ndidi Solomon and some teachers for abuse, molestation and neglect of their son while in the hostel even though medical report indicated that Don-Davis Archibong was not abused as claimed by the parents.