Every Nigerian election cycle is presented as make or mar, but the current one may be more so than most, because its emerging dynamics could alter the shape of politics for decades. This is largely down to the zoning conundrum that has paralysed the two leading political parties. A common factor the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have to contend with in picking their presidential candidates is geography. Through the years, power rotation that sees the old Northern and Southern Regions exchanging baton has become the tradition, or so we thought. President Muhammadu Buhari, a Northerner, would be concluding his eight-year rule come May next year. In the PDP, this hasn’t deterred a slew of aspirants from his zone from hurling their hats into the ring. In principle they are not opposed to zoning, but argue the party has to chose between winning the next polls and upholding some gentleman’s agreement. Some like former Vice President Atiku Abubakar who are now so dismissive of zoning used it as the basis for challenging then President Goodluck Jonathan for the PDP ticket in 2011. He emerged as the Northern consensus pick because the zone argued it was their turn to complete what would have been late President Umaru Yar’Adua’s second term. Last year, the Southern Governors Forum (SGF) which draws its membership from APC, PDP and the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), insisted the next president must come from the South. Despite the protestations of their leading lights in the main opposition PDP, it increasingly looks like the party could field another Northerner. It just finished screening aspirants from the two regions – suggesting that with less than 30 days to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) deadline for concluding primaries, an open contest is a fait accompli. In APC, it was well-nigh sacrilegious to think the North would present anyone to replace Buhari. After all, the very foundations of its formation were built on power rotation. On February 22, 2022, following a visit of a delegation of the Progressives Governors Forum (PGF) to President Muhammadu Buhari at Aso Rock, Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, emerged to announce that a working agreement had been reached by the party regarding its zoning formula. He said: “We have agreed a zoning formula for all the six geopolitical zones. Essentially, northern zone will have positions the South have had in the last eight years, and vice versa. It is a very simple, equitable and fair formula.” Last week, however, APC National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, said the party had not taken any position on zoning. In short order, the media was awash with reports of moves to draft Northern aspirants into the contest. As you read this, Senate President Ahmad Lawan may be entering the contest. This new plot is ostensibly because the PDP is thinking of picking a Northerner. But its promoters are clutching at straws. A party has to stand for something; it cannot base fundamental decisions on expediency or knee-jerk reactions to what its rival is doing. In the unlikely event that the two parties throw up northern candidates, the collateral damage would be worse for APC. It’s unlikely to win in the South-South or Southeast; offering another Northerner to its Southwest stronghold would only generate a pool of angry voters who would repay its treachery with protest votes. And it wouldn’t matter if such votes end up enthroning a Northern PDP president. Some would say that’s the agenda. PDP or APC, a northerner is a northerner. But such a parochial goal would only produce further national polarisation. I made a case for major parties to stay with the rotation principle in a piece titled “The 2023 zoning controversy”, published in The Nation on August 4, 2020. Some excerpts are reproduced here because the arguments are still relevant for the ongoing debate. THE 2023 ZONING CONTROVERSY*** ‘The recent upheavals in the All Progressives Congress (APC) have been linked to succession politics. There’s intense jockeying within the ruling party as well as the main opposition Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) with key players moving their pieces around on some unseen chess board. It is against this backdrop that we must view the recent intervention by Buhari’s uncle, Mamman Daura, on the issue of zoning. It was a bolt out of the blue that called for jettisoning of the concept. In its place merit and competence should be used to pick presidents. “This turn-by-turn, it was done once, it was done twice, and it was done thrice… It is better for this country to be one…it should be for the most competent and not for someone who comes from somewhere,” he told the BBC Hausa Service in an interview. Choosing the best man for any job is a reasonable proposition, but Daura’s proposal has been met with a raucous chorus of disapproval and suspicion. Even the presidency felt it necessary to distance Buhari from the comments – arguing that they were personal and the author old enough to hold whatever views he espoused.   Let’s play according to the rules, Oyetola urges politicians     Akintola family to honour Makinde, Amaechi, others     Residents block Ado-Akure road over kidnapping   His remarks have come when a certain strand within the northern political establishment was sending out signals they were actively scheming for retention of presidential power in the region come the next election cycle. This is after Buhari would have held power for eight unbroken years. It is a thought that should make anyone with the slightest familiarity with Nigeria’s political history recoil in horror. For all its flaws, zoning is one thing the political class has got right as a way of reducing heat in the polity and fostering a sense of belonging in a culturally and ethnically-diverse country. It provides hope that at national level even minorities – outside of the big three ethnic groups – can ascend the highest heights of political power with time. The same holds true at state level. Before the defunct National Party of Nigeria (NPN) pioneered zoning in the Second Republic, ‘merit’ and ‘competence’ were the yardstick for picking leaders. But did we ever get the ‘best’? No way! Instead, the power structure was tilted in such a way that the dominance of the old North was total. It was always easy for the region to divide the two southern blocs and rule. When the late Biafran leader, Emeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, visited the home of the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo to condole with the family on his death, he wrote these famous lines in the register: “The best president Nigeria never had.” Many shared that sentiment – especially in the Southwest – but elsewhere in the North and East people couldn’t be bothered about his abilities and he never became president. Over time frustration with this lopsided arrangement triggered the agitation for ‘power shift’ to the south. Zoning was a by-product of that political evolution. But for the military intervention of 1983 the concept might have become an unshakable article of faith of our politics – never to be tampered with. In the Fourth Republic it worked seamlessly with the President Olusegun Obasanjo handing over to Umaru Yar’Adua. It would have gone on and on but for the unscripted death of Yar’Adua which handed PDP the dilemma of denying then President Goodluck Jonathan the right to seek re-election when the breach of the rotational arrangement wasn’t his making. Without manipulation and with the cooperation of men of goodwill, it would equally work in producing a successor to Buhari from any of the three southern zones. Daura’s argument that zoning hasn’t delivered the best for Nigeria is disingenuous. At what point did he make the discovery? As many have pointed out he didn’t hold this position when zoning favoured the emergence of Buhari in 2015. It’s not as if there’s any system known to man that throws up the ‘best’ candidate for a political position. The office of president wasn’t made to be filled by a conclave of wise and influential courtiers. Constitution writers through the ages left that important assignment to ‘ordinary’ voters – many of whom we dismiss as lacking the sophistication to choose the ‘best’ man for the job. In the end everyone is left to determine who is ‘best,’ not based on any objective parameters but subjective ones. No country ever elected ‘the best’ leader. Many who have been lauded through history also had truckloads of detractors. Abraham Lincoln, Ulysses Grant, Winston Churchill, Kwame Nkrumah, Sekou Toure, Nelson Mandela…weren’t without critics. Nigerians aren’t looking for a superman. They just want an honest, competent and empathetic individual who may not necessarily be the ‘best’ of his generation. He would do his bit and step aside for a successor to continue the task of nation-building. Such competent hands abound in the north, south, east and west of this country. Many would come to the office underrated only to be transformed into giants by the office and the challenges they overcame while serving there. Leaders of Daura’s generation keep saying Nigeria’s unity is non-negotiable. But it can only be sustained if political actors don’t destroy trust. Zoning is a glue that enhances accommodation and sense of belonging. Dismantling it does the opposite and perpetuates the belief that some are born to rule while others are mere spectators.’ (Excerpts from an article first published in The Nation on August 4, 2020)