Health and business war of words broke out late last year between plastic watchers and the plastic industry over whether chemicals in plastics cause about 52 types of cancer. The offensive against plastics was launched on Facebook by health watchers who claimed their evidence came from the American Doctors Association. About three governors in the north of Nigeria immediately pitched their tents in the health cantonment, warning their people in public announcements to avoid food packaged hot in plastics and foods in sun-heated plastic packaging. They also warned that bottled water should not be kept in sun-heated cars. It is an unending war which has been raging for years. In August last year , the controversies prompted Michael Olatubosun to publish in Fact Check by Dubawa, an article titled: Does Eating Foods in Different Types of Plastics Cause 52 Types of Cancer? The article floors the claims against plastics on some scores, including the fact that an American Doctors Association does not exist, and that the American Medical Association (AMA), which is known by almost everyone, has no such word on it. Whatever is the truth, my advice in this case, as in all controversial situations, is that it is wise to err on the side of caution. For me, the chicken is coming home to roost. For the latest volley of this plastics controversy has helped to create more awareness about the ubiquitous plastic, although there is still a lot of work to do, to bring a large proportion of the population into the awareness net. While, indeed, there may be many possible causes of cancer as Tubosun argues, we cannot, as he, also, suggests believe that chemicals in plastics cannot be one of them. What gladdens me in that controversy is the fact that the seeds some of us have been sowing for awareness about the dangers of dangerous contamination of food by plastics are finally making prophets to have honour in their own land. It does not matter if it took a warning from abroad to get those northern governors out of their offices into the streets to launch awareness campaigns. It does not matter how long it took for the health prophets in Nigeria to have honour in their own land. What matters is for the information on plastics and their dangers to become widespread. Like other Nigerians, this column has been warning for decades, yes decades, not years, that chemicals in plastic wrappers or containers leak into their contents when they are heated…and that these chemicals have been found to cause cancer. Thanks to whoever is behind the present war on plastics credited to the American Doctors Association, the prophet in another far, far away country, which has just issued a health alert that has got some state governors in Nigeria talking seriously to their people. Plastics are used everywhere in Nigeria, today. They have replaced leaves in the wrapping of foods that are cooked for hours. Many people who eat on-the-go buy such foods as puff-puff, roasted plantain, corn, yam and boiled corn in polythene bags. Pop-corn is packed hot in polythene bags. It is interesting, but not discomforting, that health officials in Nigeria did not pay attention to warnings over the years that the public needs education on these matters. We do not need to regulate the market, I always said. All we need do is educate the public. When the public knows plastics can cause cancer, there will be no business for water sellers who do not pay attention to public health. It is interesting, I said, because Nigeria woke up as it were in the middle of October last year after the “American Doctors Association” made public announcements about how plastics contaminated edibles and had been found to cause many types of cancer. No fewer than three governors in the north of Nigeria  echoed the messages. Erik Solheim, UN environment chief, before his resignation in 2018 over criticisms that he broke internal rules and travel too often, said in an article titled: Story Chemicals & Pollution Action—The missing science:  “could our addiction to plastic be poisoning us? “…When scientists took a proper look at these substances, they found them to be incredibly harmful to people and the planet. Now this attention is increasingly turning to one of the most ubiquitous materials in use today: plastic. The fact is that while we are acutely aware of the alarming rising tide of plastic waste, there is not a great deal known about the long-term health impacts of this pollution crisis. What we do know is that our addiction to convenience has placed it everywhere: leaching into food from kitchens, restaurants and supermarkets, floating in microscopic particles in our drinking water, drifting in the oceans and choking wildlife and ecosystems. “For a long time, we operated on the principle that plastics are okay because there was no evidence that they were unsafe. This is not equivalent to proving that they are safe. The ubiquity of plastics, and the increasing evidence that we are ingesting many of them in microplastic form, demands a closer examination of the health implications. Until recently, much of the research, and concern, focused on food packaging and how tiny plastic fragments “migrate” into food from the containers they are stored in. ” Writing in the Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health, a team of environmental scientists raised the alarm over “food contact materials” substances used in packaging, storage, processing, or preparation equipment. According to the research, food contact materials contain a total of over 4,000 chemical substances including formaldehyde, classified as  carcinogen category 1B by the International Agency for Research on Cancer. There are discussions at this moment on restrictions, which can focus on the placing on the market and use of formaldehyde and formaldehyde releasers in mixtures and articles for supply to consumers. The chemicals causing the most disquiet have been bisphenol A (BPA) and phthalates. The former is a material used in hard, transparent plastics known as polycarbonates, a popular material for baby bottles and storage containers. Phthalates are a class of chemicals that, when added to plastics, make them more durable, flexible and long-lasting. “Some research has indicated that BPA may disrupt hormone and reproductive systems, including abnormal penis development in men. There are also suspicions that it could contribute to diabetes, heart disease and even cancer. According to the US National Institute of Environmental Health Services, exposure to BPA has long been widespread. A 2003-2004 study conducted by the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention found BPA in 93% of 2,517 urine samples from people six years and older. Some regulations have been passed to limit BPA use, particularly in baby products, and more is in the offing in the European Union, but many believe it doesn’t go far enough. “Recent research on phthalates pointed to equally widespread levels of contamination. The researchers found elevated levels of phthalates in the bodies of those who had eaten out the previous day 35 percentage higher. These chemicals are linked to fertility problems, pregnancy complications and other health issues. As ever in fields of emerging science, though, there is dissenting opinion. Stephen Ostroff, Deputy Commissioner for Foods and Veterinary Medicine at the US Food and Drug Administration, in February 2018 declared BPA safe for “currently authorised uses” in food packaging after a two-year study on rats”. Plastics and Cancer The following figures from Google may have no direct correlations between plastics use and cancer prevalence, but they are, nevertheless, interesting ones for anyone who would rather err on the side of caution. What I mean by this is that where one or more parties are “dragging” an issue, with one party saying there is a problem and the other saying the coast is still clear. It is better to not only watch the weather carefully but to stay indoor until the weather is absolutely clear. But, in these matters, is the weather ever clear? What has man veered into outside the dictates of Mother Nature which ever gives him or her a clear coast? Did we not once say tobacco smoking was safe? Did we not once say it was safe to use asbestos for roofing houses? Did we not once use lead pipes to supply water to buildings? Did we not once think aluminum cooking pots and microwave were safe for cooking? Are we not grappling with the radiation problems of cellphones? According to Google…   No hooting please…many people are going deaf     Does coconut oil offer promise of glaucoma cure?     Venous insufficiency: tired, heavy, swollen, dying legs (2)   1) In 2015, Nigeria consumed about one million tons of plastics. By last year,  Nigeria was expected to have been consuming 1.5 million tons. 2) By November last year, it was estimated that about 72,000 persons die from cancer every year. That is about 6,000 every month. About 102,000 cases are diagnosed from her population of about 200 million people. If these figures correlate, then about 108,000 Nigerians may have died of cancer last year. 3) The current population of the United States is estimated at 333,484,850 “as of Wednesday, October 13, 2021, based on Worldometer elaboration of the latest United States Nations data”. 4) The United States consumes about 37 million tons of plastics every year. About 16 million tons are used in food packaging. On the average, every American consumes 100 pounds yearly of packaging and food service plastics. 5) As the United States population is about 1.7 of Nigeria’s population and the United States plastics consumption is about 24.6 times higher than Nigeria’s, will the cancer rates in both nations show such inferences? 6) Cancer death in the United States every year is about 608,570 whereas Nigeria posts about 72,000. This suggests that about eight or nine more persons die in the United States than Nigeria. There may, therefore, be more reasons people are dying of cancer in the United States than in Nigeria. 7) What about new cancer diagnosis? In the United States, 1.9 million new cases pop up yearly in relation to 102,000 in Nigeria. This means the occurrence rate in United States, a huge plastics consumer, is about 19 times higher than in Nigeria. But the cancer death rates is only eight times than that of Nigeria. This may suggest that there is no correlation between exposure to plastics or that cancer scourge is better managed in that country than in Nigeria. The  way out The best way out is the avoidance of plastics. But is there anyone who avoid them nowadays? Even the cellphone, ball-point pen, toys and car interior are made of plastics and plastic substances are in toilet soaps, creams and lotions, shampoos and fragrances. Two other options I find helpful are diet and detoxification.  Diet A diet rich in salads has been promoted by many authorities as these vegetables have chelating properties which help to move out not only microplastics, heavy metals but other toxins as well. Among these vegetables are the Cruciferous vegetables… Cabbage, Broccoli, Brussels sprouts, Cauliflower and some other greens of the Brassicaceae family. These vegetables should not be over done because they are a rich source of goistrogenes which slow thyroid function. There are also Kale, Parsley, Cilantro, Garlic, Radishes and many more. Incidentally, all of these and more are among three proprietary food supplements I always mention here. They are a warehouse of more than 40 green plants and their extracts… pop up for recognition Daily Build, Purxcel, Spectra greens , Complete Phyto Energiser, C24/7, Liven Alkaline Coffee, which comes with about 16,000 plant factors and without the caffeine of coffee. I also encourage local plant powders such as those of Pawpaw, Jute Mallow (Ewedu), Potato leaves, Utazi, Moi Danielli. This is the trade name of the powder of Thaumatococcus Danielli, the leaf in which, guess what our forebears cooked Agidi (Eko, Yoruba) and Moin Moin have been found to heal, especially in sickle cell children, and to help livers damaged by alcohol.  Detoxification Detoxification may involve chlorella which removes heavy metals from the brain, Cilantro and Asparagus which detoxify the kidneys, Red Clover, Burdock root etc. Since plastics are naturally detoxified through the Glucuronidation system, some authorities suggest the use of Calcium D-Glucarate. Activated Charcoal cannot be ignored. Diatomaceous Earth (Diatom or DE) is a blessing. We cannot ignore organic coffee enema (inedible) which opens up and detoxifies the liver and intestine (please see Gerson Therapy online). As a co-worker, I suggest Cleanse  Capsules from LivePure. It is a big house of detoxifying plant extracts.