George Moghalu is a former All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant in Anambra State. In this interview with JIDE ORITUNSIN, the Managing Director of the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) speaks on his recent victory at the nation’s apex court and the forthcoming APC presidential primary How do you feel over the outcome of the case you instituted against your party following ugly developments in the Anambra governorship primary? For me, the judgment from the Supreme Court is not a matter to be happy about. I have mixed feelings over it because nobody ordinarily would desire to go to court with his party. But it arose because of the need to right a wrong; the need to put a stop to unnecessary impunity; to change the narrative and to get people to understand their limits. So, at the end of the day, both the winner and the loser in every election, no matter how small, will feel happy. With the outcome of the case, can we now say that there is hope in the judiciary? Yes. I’ve always had confidence in our judiciary. It is always we, the politicians that are the problem. This is because the court is there, the judiciary is there, it is when we bring our matter to them that they will adjudicate. We are the ones that dragged them into politics. I am very confident that from the judgment, lessons must be learnt. It’s not about my party now; it is the entire political class that has to learn lessons from it. There is an established fact today that if you don’t adhere to internal democracy; if you don’t do your primary well that somebody may decide to go in the line of George Moghalu tomorrow by going to court to challenge the decision. As a result, there is an expectation that justice will be done. So, it is now left for us, politicians, to do what is right.  The party has warned members to explore internal conflict resolution mechanisms in solving matters, but you went to court. What is your fate with the party? My fate? I’m a committed member of the APC. How can I leave the house that I built? I make bold to say that I’m one of the very few politicians that have not changed parties. I have been with the party since the days of the All Peoples Party (APP), which is one of the parties that formed the APC. I also participated in the process of forming the APC. So, I am an APC man in blood, fully committed and dedicated to the ideals of the party. What is your advice for the party ahead of the upcoming primaries? That we should learn our lessons; that we should do what is right; such as obeying our rules and guidelines. These rules were made by us and it is intended to throw up the proper candidates. And that’s why the president, in his wisdom, advised the current party leadership not to field unpopular popular candidates, field candidates that are acceptable to the people. You can only determine this by preparing a credible electoral process; once the process is credible, free and fair, two things are guaranteed. Even the loser will feel happy. Secondly, there’ll be unity in the party. But the moment you manipulate the process; the moment you bend the rules you made, you have created disaffection ab initio and the consequence is that you can’t achieve unity at the end of the day. So, by the time you throw up a candidate, you have internal problems, and internal disagreement. At the end of the day, we lose. So, these are things that should be avoided by anybody. I believe that the party leadership must have learnt some lessons from it.  With the multitude of presidential aspirants from all parts of the country and the deafening silence on zoning by the party leadership, there are fears that the quest for power shift to south may fail. What are your comments on this? If I tell you I’m not worried then I’m fooling myself. I’m worried because you have 28 aspirants aspiring for one position, all are qualified. All, I believe, are capable of running the affairs of the country. So, it is a matter of great concern. It is a great worry for me as a person, as a committed party man. I really sympathize with the party leadership on this. The two major parties, the APC and the PDP are in crisis and there is no third force to weather the storm. What are your fears? When people say a party in crisis, I really don’t see it as a crisis because these are expected reactions. Both the APC and the PDP are human organizations that are managed by human beings and these human beings are of varied interests and ambitions. Certainly, interests will clash because these 28 presidential aspirants, for example, have 28 support bases and they have the same party, of the same stock, certainly their supporters will clash. This is because their supporters are marketing them with a view to having their own product to be bought by the entire APC family. Ultimately, that same product will be sold to the Nigerian people. So, certainly, interests will clash and when interests clash, it doesn’t mean there’s a crisis. But, for me, I consider it a politically expected reaction. It is now incumbent on us to manage it properly because it is the mismanagement of such reactions that brings problems. The key principle in managing such situations is the neutrality and the honesty of the umpire and sticking to the guidelines that have been established. If there is no intention to satisfy a personal ambition, and everything we are doing in all honesty is to have a free and fair contest, then there won’t be any problem.   Oloyede’s Double Wreath of Honour     Makinde presents vehicles to judges     Sanwo-Olu to parents: pay more attention to boys   Do you think the APC would do the right thing in order to retain power? Yes, why not? We have the capacity. People were put in position today at the last national convention led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu. He has credibility, he has character, the confidence, the capacity and a good team to navigate through the murky waters of politics. With governors who are the leaders of the party in various states acting with impunity, don’t you foresee a problem? I keep telling people, let me emphasize it, leadership is not elected and that is why if you look at the APC constitution, from page one to the last, there is no place you have provision for a leader. But a leader evolves from amongst the people. A leader evolves by the actions that attract people to him. There must be an arrowhead. It is like our president today; he’s the leader of our party. I am willing to follow him because there are traits of him that I want to copy: His character, his credibility, his honesty, and his sincerity. These are factors because what is making him attractive to me may be different from what makes him attractive to the other person. By the time we know it, all of us are evolving around him as our leader. The same thing applies to state governors and local government chairmen. Even in our immediate nuclear families, there’s no day that a meeting is called in your family to elect your father as the leader of the home. But, by his actions and the responsibilities placed on his shoulders, he’s the leader. If you want to take over leadership from him, take over and start paying school fees and start providing. The man will be willing to concede the leadership to you. So, it is not about the national chairman saying that a governor is a leader. By right, he should, but he should also evolve from amongst the people; he should win the confidence of the people. He should be the rallying point.  There are moves to draft former President Goodluck Jonathan into the presidential race on the APC platform. Are you worried about this development? I can’t be worried, I wish him luck.  Is that the best the APC can offer? You will agree with me that there are 28 aspirants and he’s (Jonathan) one of them, if he actually is. Today’s front page story in many newspapers says he has rejected the form that was bought for him and the statement has not been denied. It is apparent that a northerner will get the PDP presidential ticket. Do you foresee a situation whereby both parties will zone their presidential tickets to the north? One thing I know about myself is that I’m not a soothsayer. I don’t foresee the future. I deal with the present. Yes, statement of fact; even some northerners have bought forms in the APC. But, I will advise us to be a little more patient and let everything play out. There’s no law that says once you buy from you will become the party’s flag bearer. What do you think can unite Nigerians and make them see themselves as one, instead of identifying with their regions and ethnic nationalities? I look forward to that day. To be honest with you, it will be a day of celebration for me when we discountenance these primordial sentiments. The elite, which I’m inclusive, take advantage of our differences such as ethnic nationalities and religion to open the cleavage to achieve political advantage. To address this problem, we must stop the practice of including state origin from our forms. There is no way we can discountenance the issue of where we come from when we are required to indicate our towns, local government and state of origin in all of our official forms. It is our state of residence that we must emphasise. For example, I was born and bred in Aba, Abia State and I served in government in Aba. If it were America I would be qualified to run for governor there if I desire. But, when the chips came down, I went back to Anambra State. So, if anybody tells you you’re going to discountenance where you come from by a mere pronouncement, it wouldn’t work. Our politics have not developed to the point where zone or religion does not matter. The APC is in a dilemma over picking its presidential candidate. In your view, should the party cede the ticket to the north or the south? Why do you say that the party is in a dilemma? Why would you assume? Why do you want to cross the bridge when you haven’t gotten there? For me, those assumptions are not necessary. The important thing is that people have indicated interest that they want to contest and the party will issue a guideline that you can take to the bank. By the time the guideline comes out, they will look at it. We will address the issues that may be raised by the guidelines. Then questions can be asked at that stage. The truth about it is that the APC as a party wants to retain power and that is our wish. We will campaign, we will work hard, we will present our manifesto, will present a report card which is very rich, and we’ll present it to the average Nigerian. Then, based on that, they will vote for us to serve them for another four years.