Best actress in a comedy – Funke Akindele Bello (Omo Ghetto: The Saga). Best actor in a comedy – Samuel Perry ‘Broda Shaggi’ (Dwindle). Best supporting actress – Omowunmi Dada (Country Hard). Best supporting actor – Odunlade Adekola (Jankariwo). Best actress in a drama – Osas Ighodaro (Rattlesnake). Best actor in a drama – Stan Nze (Rattlesnake: The Ahanna Story). Best short film or online video – Taiwo Ogunnimo (I am the prostitute Mama described). Best Indigenous language (Yoruba) – Alaise – David Akande, Demola Yusuf, Edgard Leroy. Best indigenous language (Hausa) – Voiceless – Rogers Ofime Best Indigenous language (Igbo) – Nne-Ka – Uche Nnanna Maduka. Best Indigenous language (Swahili) – Obambo (Freddy Feruzi). Best art director (Movie or TV Series) Tunji Afolayan – Amina Best costume designer – Millicent T. Jack (Amina). Best lighting designer – Matthew Yusuf (Nneka the pretty serpent). Best picture editor: Tunde Apalowo (Maria Ebun Pataki). Best sound editor: Jim Lively and James Nelson (Amina).   AMVCA 2022: Ramsey Noah’s Rattlesnake, Funke Akindele…     Wike begs Lagos PDP for presidential ticket     Train attack: Terrorists release pregnant woman   Best sound track – Pascal Aka, Raquel – Gold Coast Lounge Best Makeup – Balogun Abiodun ( Omo Ghetto The Saga). Best Writer: Oiseomaye, Donald Tombia, Biodun Stephen (Introducing the Kujus). Best Cinematographer: Muhammed Atta Ahmed (Rattle Snake). Best movie Southern Africa: Hairareb – Dantagos Jimmy Melani. Best movie East Africa: The Girl In The Yellow Jumper – Morocco Omari Best movie West Africa: Collision Course – Bolanle Austen-Peters, Joseph Umoibom Best overall movie: Amina (Izu Ojukwu and Okey Ogunjiofor) Best Television series: (Drama or Comedy) The Mystic River – Rogers Ofime. The Multichoice talent factory: Engaito by Daisy Masembe Best Director: Ramsey Nouah Best Documentary: If Objects Could Speak – Saitabao Kaiyare, Mumo Liku Elena Schilling, Daniela Fritz, Ann Katrina Boberg. Best social online content creator – Oga Sabinus Best Africa Magic Original Drama series: Rishante – Dimbo Atiya. Best Africa Magic Original Comedy series: The Johnsons – Roger Ofime. Industry Merit Award – Taiwo Ajayo-Lycett Longest running TV show in Africa – Tinsel