Between fanatics and lunatics there is but a thin line.  When that line is crossed, every civilized realm must draw the line — and crack down fast. Deborah Samuel was murdered at the Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto.  She complained about her course mates posting religious stuff on their WhatsApp class platform. The mob claimed blasphemy.  But from the transcript of the WhatsApp voice note that sparked the fracas, boisterous arrogance glared at you. The mob fatwa was, therefore, a cynical cover for brazen, premeditated, callous murder. The voice note, as translated from the original Hausa: “Holy ghost fire, nothing would happen to me.  Is it by force you guys keep sending these religious messages in our group? Our group wasn’t created for that, but rather as a notice for when there’s a test, assignment, examinations, etc.  Not these nonsense religious post.” That complaint could have leapt off any WhatsApp platform, for Nigerians seem truly incapable of keeping to platform rules.  Here, such crowing arrogance cost a life!  Sad. Still, aside from “Holy ghost fire”, and the protest over religious postings, the voice mail was secular.  Except the alleged insult of Prophet Muhammad had come before the voice recording, there appears no proof of blasphemy — whatever that means. The Sokoto Sultanate — the spiritual fount to which the Sokoto mob pledge fealty — has promptly discharged its responsibility. A statement, by the Sultanate, not only condemned the gory killing, it called on security agents to move in and do their work.  In that statement, there was no equivocation. The Sokoto government too denounced the killing as barbarous, called for calm and asked for an exhaustive probe into the causes of the tragic incident, in the midst of trouble-shooting among Sokoto Christian and Muslim leaders. The Federal Government was even more emphatic: “No person has the right to take the law into his or her own hands in this country,” the statement declared. ”Violence has not and never will solve any problem.” It, however, preached mutual sensitivity to the creed of all faiths; and the exercise of freedom of speech with responsibility. Not unreasonable advice. Still, by not giving an express order to crack down on the murdering criminals, the two statements erred on caution, than go full throttle on crime and punishment. To be sure, tact is imperative, so that the volatile situation doesn’t spiral out of control.  Still, nothing should give the impression that faith and fanatical crimes are condoned or even rationalized.  Absolutely nothing! Again, let’s be absolutely clear: Deborah’s was cold-blooded murder.  Some beasts have lynched a fellow citizen who had a right to life.  The criminals must pay. The least acceptable act, therefore, is to round them all up — everyone, no matter how remotely involved — while investigations continue; progressively aiding more arrests. Even more tragic: these criminals, including the beast that preened on camera that he had killed and burnt Deborah, are future teachers!  Teachers or fanatical vampires? So far, only two suspects are reportedly nabbed.  But even that has sparked mob protests, in the Sokoto metropolis, to set free the arrested suspects — to push their democratic right to free murder? It’s good, though, that the state government dispersed them all and imposed a curfew. Still, such gangling right by fanatics to kill is a function of a skewed sociology, that tends to make exceptions or mouth rationalizations for faith-driven crimes.   Yet another award     Ex-SGF Lawal denies promoting religious violence     Prof leads 34 lawyers to defend Deborah’s killer-suspects   That skew so riles northern Christians that they themselves appear sworn to matching fanaticism with fanaticism — the devil consumes them all!  With Deborah’s cold-blooded murder, who really can blame them?  But that is umpteenth reason the authorities should sit up and get justice for Deborah. Already, troubling socio-religious politics is playing out, over an out-and-out murder — a ringing shame, if ever there was one. Media handlers of Abubakar Atiku, former Vice President, second-guessed their principal by rushing through a tweet in his name to condemn the murder. Atiku, assailed by threats from fanatical counter-tweets, pulled down the tweet, claiming only AA could authenticate any tweet as his. Vintage, Teflon Atiku! The man loves to grandstand!  But hardly anything sticks to him! Seemed the perfect election-season game, though: the dead are dead. Only the living can vote!  Cynical arithmetic! From the sidelines, some faith hustlers, terrible humans with pit-black hearts of darkness, have been spewing rubbish — rubbish that would shock their own children if they were not already brainwashed — justifying the wanton taking of a life they can’t make. One, the chief imam of an Abuja mosque, reportedly glowered about a “red line” over which non-Muslims must not cross.  Another, factotum to some Sokoto commissioner, reportedly boasted that were the Deborah debacle to happen again, there were 99.9 per cent chances that the holy mob would still kill — and probably get away with it! These are the lunatic voices the Nigerian state should first tame, no matter how highly placed.  You must weed out these illiberal voices to defang the rabble in the street, killing in the name of Allah. By the way, what might this “red line” mean?  From the Muslim side, insulting Prophet Muhammad could be fatal blasphemy.  The same lobby claim insulting Jesus Christ is no less heretical.  Mutual respect for faith sensibilities here is trite. Still, are we then back in the age of Saracens and crusaders?  If you insult Muslim sensibilities, Saracens slay you.  If you ridicule Christ, crusaders gut you! Is that the holy dog-eat-dog, long buried with the Medieval times, we want to resurrect here? Besides, God is Almighty: with Christians, with Muslims.  Even with Yoruba traditional faith, the Olodumare is all-powerful, omniscient, omni-potent and omni-present.  So, is that the same God the deluded Sokoto mob claim to kill for? Such bumbling ignorance would have been so ludicrous, if it were not so tragic.  Yet, a so-called chief imam would align himself with open murder; and still brag he isn’t giving his faith a bad name. Still, a redemptive voice has come from Sheikh Abubakar Gumi, the famed Islamic scholar. “It is unfortunate that we even see some clerics who are telling people that whoever insults your religion, just kill them.  They are quoting verses they don’t understand,” The Nation quoted him as declaring. Such illuminating thinking (not lynching) exults Nigerian Muslims — and it’s pleasing too that NASFAT, the Islamic praying band, has also condemned the Sokoto outrage. Let the Sokoto murderers get their due, after a fair and open trial. That’s the only way Nigeria that failed poor Deborah in life won’t fail her in death. The state must cure these fanatics of their lunacy.   This page would be away for one or two weeks, due to a medical emergency.  But it would only be a brief pause in transmission.  Thanks for keeping faith.