Bauchi Governor Bala Mohammed has claimed he is a step away from clinching the presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He assured his government will operate a knowledge-based government if he emerges President. The Bauchi Governor also said that he has the capacity to lift the country out of the plethora of problems created by the All Progressives Congress (APC) under President Muhammadu Buhari to a flourishing country where all shades of opinion with be considered. He promised all tribes will be recognised and anyone with knowledge on how the country can reinvent itself will be given an opportunity to do so irrespective of cultural and religious affiliation with him as President. Mohammed, a former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), who stated this when he met with party delegates from the South East zone, added that he would ensure inclusivity in his administration. A statement from his media team explained Mohammed stated the North East and South East which have not tested power were most eligible for the presidency. He however described the Igbo nation as critical to the Nigerian project just as he said their entrepreneurial ingenuity and apprenticeship should be emulated by other parts of the country as a model for addressing poverty and unemployment. According to him: “I am presenting myself for election and I seek your support but if I don’t win, I will support the eventual candidate of PDP because we have to rescue Nigeria.” The Governor, who also spoke with delegates in Anambra, Enugu and Ebonyi, said he would run an inclusive government if given the party’s mandate and wins the 2023 presidential election.   I will run an all-inclusive government-Amaechi     My transition from technocrat to politician, by Edevbie     2023: Anxiety mounts in Ogun APC over primaries   He called on the delegates to join him in retrieving, rescuing and renovating the country with knowledge-based solutions. Further disclosing the thrust of his administration to the Forum of Former PDP Ministers the aspirant said: “I am going to have a knowledge driven administration to do away with exclusion, with division and sectionalism. We must have the best lines of ourselves where we are, where we want to go and how. We have to have a plan. “But we are going to have a knowledge driven presidency. We are not going to be borrowing recklessly. We have done it in the FCT and I’m doing it in Bauchi, leveraging on small resources and doing much, having correct procurement process and managing scarcity was sagacity. “The audacity of knowledge of using the best, not looking at China as if it is a free fall for resources, the resources are here in Nigeria, where my vision or our vision can do it. All these monies we are taking is going into private pockets. “Our solid minerals have not been exploited, even our oil resources that we are dependent on is being plundered, everybody knows that and we have to find a solution. “We will do justice and equity in this country. We will open up and become accessible. We will access our resources in this country very well. We have to deepen M and E in a manner that we will know what is going everywhere in the MDAs, we will not just sit in the Oval Office and be wearing beautiful shoes and good caps, we will have to come out and supervise”. If given the party’s mandate, Bala said he will help in tackling the myriads of problems facing the country. “I am a visionary leader who is fully prepared for national sacrifice, who is tried and trusted and whose compelling life journey and exposure as a journalist, civil servant, senator, minister and governor have equipped me with the skills set to tackle the myriad of frightening problems this clueless APC administration has bequeathed to the nation. “Under my watch as the president, I will leverage the nationalistic instincts inherent in Nigerian citizens to drive national development both from the individual and from the community in a vertical and horizontal manner.” (NAN)