Chairman of Lagos State Parks and Garages Management Committee, Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya (MC Oluomo) has alerted the Lagos State government and Commissioner of Police over a violence threat by a transport union chief Adeshina Akeweje. Akeweje is the Chairman of Caretaker Committee of the state National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) set up by the union’s President Tajudeen Baruwa after the proscription of the union by the Lagos State Government. In an open letter to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Akeweje vowed that there would be breakdown of law and order on Thursday, May 19 if the MC Oluomo-led parks management committee refuses to vacate the former union secretariat at Abbatoir, Agege. He also promised “to mobilise over 5,000 of his members to resort to lawful offensive action needed to take structure of NURTW in the state which rightfully belong to it.” But Akinsanya, in a speech read by Comrade Olayiwola Lemboye, appealed to the state government and security agencies to call Akeweje and his group to order, “so that peace and tranquillity we enjoyed in Lagos State will not be eroded.”   Couple sues son for not giving them grandchildren     2023: APC’s troubling agenda     BREAKING: EFCC detains ex-NDDC MD Nsima Ekere   According to him: “Using the word “forcefully” is an aberration and affront to us in drivers’ union in the state. Instead of resorting to this, why can’t you (Akeweje) back-up your claim with a document of proof of ownership or any documentary evidence from NURTW National Headquarters that the said secretariat was built by them? Instead of resorting to purported violence, why can’t you approach the law of court for adjudication?” The parks management committee chief reminded the group that all members in Lagos state pulled out of NURTW National Body as a result of draconian nature of Tajudeen Baruwa, “who was hell-bent in distorting the permanent peace and harmony in Lagos and efforts to call him to order proved abortive. “The decision to pull out of the National Body of NURTW was a joint agreement and final decision by the entire ranks and files of drivers association in Lagos State. There were written documents signed by all ranks and files members to buttress this.” Akinsanya said Akeweje was unanimously removed by his branch members after the expiration of his tenure. He urged the State Government and security agencies to hold the group responsible for any breakdown of law and order in the state.