Prof. Yemi Osinbajo has said his experience as the vice-president in the last seven years under President Muhammadu Buhari has placed him in high pedestal to lead the country in 2023. Osinbajo stated this during a visit to the Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari, yesterday. He was in Kwara State to address All Progressives Congress (APC) delegates ahead of the May 30 scheduled APC presidential primaries. According to him, working under Buhari in the last seven years has exposed him to series of security and economic challenges facing the country. The vice-president said the experience had placed him in a better position to address them due to exposure and opportunities given to him by the Buhari administration. He noted that being vice-president was a great opportunity that placed him in front burner against other aspirants vying for the same office, “promising that as soon as I get to the office in May 2023, I will hit the ground running for a more prosperous Nigeria.” The vice president hailed the fatherly role of the Emir and sought his support towards his aspiration. Osinbajo said his respect and regard for the Emir and the Emirate informed his visit to the palace to seek his fatherly support.   PDP urged to field indigene for Ikorodu Federal Constituency…     Abiru submits senatorial nomination form     Why I will stand with Yahaya Bello, by Hafsat Abiola   Earlier, Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq said the vice-president has been a friend of Kwara who launched the social investment programme and Owo Isowo scheme for the vulnerable and less privileged. The governor led other state executive members, including Deputy Governor Kayode Alabi; Speaker of the House of Assembly, Mr. Yakubu Danladi; the senators from Kwara North and South; and the state party Chairman, Chief Sunday Fagbemi. AbdulRazaq said Osibanjo remained a living voice in Nigeria’s economic landscape. Responding, the Emir of Ilorin lauded the vice-president and said his aspiration was based on his past record, which had earned him respect. The first-class traditional ruler and chairman of the state Council of Chiefs said the challenges ahead of Osinbajo were enormous and urged him to unite the country, if elected. Sulu-Gambari, who prayed for success of the vice-president in his 2023 campaign, asked God to guide him through the process. “You’ve been very dutiful. Your track records alone are enough to give you success in your endeavour. “However, you have a lot of task ahead of you. May God guide you and protect you from all your enemies,” said the Emir.