The Benue State Commissioner for Finance, Dr David Olofu has said that the Idoma nation has a good chance of producing a governor for the Northcentral state next year. Olofu stated this while interacting with reporters yesterday in Makurdi, the state capital. The Idoma, with the second-largest number of people in the state after the Tiv, have never produced a governor since the state was carved out of the then Benue Plateau State in 1976. The position has been an exclusive preserve of the Tiv group that constitutes the majority. But the commissioner told reporters that, with the nomination of Mr Benson Abounu as Idoma’s consensus candidate in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the longtime dream was appearing possible. “The people are on the right track. We are getting it right. “There has never been a time the Idoma people were as united and sincere in their agitation such as this.   350 benefit from Plateau Speaker’s empowerment     Proposed airline service shutdown disheartening –…     Niger saves N200m from ghost pensioners – Sani-Bello   “Since 1999, this is the only time Idoma people unanimously produced one candidate for PDP primaries. “There is hope for us as a people and I pray it eventually ends in praise,” Olofu said. He described as unfounded and mischievous, the news getting the rounds that he was working toward becoming the deputy governor as against the governorship aspiration of the Idoma people. “Those behind the report are hallucinating as there is nothing to suggest such a move. “Those who are conversant with political party activities and electioneering process in Nigeria will agree that no one talks about deputy governorship of a state, except the governorship candidate emerges in the party after primaries. “How can one talk about deputy governorship when we are yet to know who will fly the flag of the party? “Deputy Governorship position is not like other positions that are contestable. “It is usually zoned to a particular area and the stakeholders from that area meet to agree on an acceptable candidate that could also help the party win general elections,” he said.