Katchey Laboratories Limited has joined the league of the elite analytical laboratories across the world by attaining ISO 17025 Accreditation. According to the CEO of Katchey Laboratories Limited, Mrs. Kate Isa, the feat was achieved after a detailed audit by ANAB, an American accrediting body. (ANAB stands for ANSI National Accreditation Board and ANSI stands for American National Standards Institute). “It means that results coming out of Katchey Laboratories have the same quality as the best Laboratories in the US and across the world. In other words, this accreditation is like bringing global quality to our local environment, literally to our doorsteps. “This will have a great impact on our economy. Nigerian exporters will be able to receive globally acceptable certificates of analysis for their international trade. “The laboratory complex was born out of the need to raise the bar in the analytical space in Africa and to provide reliable, quality results that will inspire confidence to encourage trade across the continent, especially with the advent of AfCFTA,” she said   Adamawa Senator takes medical outreach to 9th council,…     Six reasons you shouldn’t clean earwax with cotton buds     Nigeria records worst Cholera outbreak in 2021 – WHO   CEO of Bloom Public Health, Professor Chimezie Anyakora, said it is an exciting moment for the country to have a lab of this quality available to support trade and public safety. According to him: “Beyond providing quality results, this lab will achieve much for the country by helping boost the confidence of Nigerians, both in international commerce, to export their Katchey-Laboratories-certified products globally, with confidence; and internally, to inspire a crop of analysts and scientists. Bloom Public Health is excited to be part of this history that is being made here!” Katchey’s backward integration plan will be officially initiated by the groundbreaking ceremony for the proposed Katchey Complex by Ogun Governor Dapo Abiodun in Magboro in Ogun State on May 5, 2022. The proposed Katchey Complex will house manufacturing facilities for laboratory equipment and consumables, independent analytical laboratory complex, training centre for laboratory analysts & bio-engineers, conferencing & seminar facilities, offices and warehouses.