Devastating shoreline erosion is threatening to sack the Anyama community in Ogbia, the Local Government Area of former President Goodluck Jonathan in Bayelsa State. Investigations revealed the erosion has affected the Magistrate Court, a police post, a concrete landing jetty and Anglican Church located in the community. It was found that some buildings in the community had been washed away by the disaster, which residents said had become a recurrent decimal. The apex youth organisation in the local government, the Ogbia Brotherhood Council (OBYC), in a visit to the scenes of the disaster, painted a gory picture of the development. The National President of OBYC, Johnny Jonathan, said on Friday that the coastal erosion had washed more buildings away into the Ekole River.   Police parade suspected killers of sound engineer, seven…     We are after foreigners operating Okada in Lagos — CP     Presidential primary: Plateau Gov, APC delegates endorse…   “This situation has brought untold hardship to the people as the environment, revenue potential, agricultural activities, cultural, social and economic activities have been negatively affected,” he said. Jonathan, who led members of the council to Anyama, said the community was at the verge of extinction if urgent steps were not taken to remedy the situation. He lamented most communities in the State had continued to witness terrible devastation despite the existence of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) and the Ecological Fund. “Regrettably, while we have interventionist agency and funds like the NDDC and Ecological Fund amongst others to ensure the awards and prompt completion of shoreline protection projects, our land has continued to witness such devastating and monumental losses”, he said. Jonathan called on the Federal Government, the Bayelsa State Government, the Ministry of Environment, the Niger Delta Development Commission, the Niger Delta Ministry, the Ecological Fund, National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), State Emergency Management Agency and other relevant bodies to rescue the community.