NOLLYWOOD actor and reality show star, Kunle Remi has opened up about his expectations ahead of the commencement of Dance Naija Dance. Remi, who was unveiled as a judge alongside Uraysha Ramrachia said, “The highlight for me will be to see how the contestants will use their dance steps to tell entertaining stories that tickle both the judges and viewers at home.” The Gulder Ultimate Search breakout star also expressed delight in joining the dance reality show as a co-judge. “I am proud to be part of this show to mentor young talents, helping them tell stories with their bodies and ensuring that whatever is finally presented on stage is of high quality. These two cultures are known for using dance for storytelling.”   Tiwa Savage, others Bag Women4Africa award     Hollywood actress Tasha Smith spoils Jemeji star with over…     Eldee: It’s disrespectful to credit Beyoncé for Afrobeat…   As Dance Naija Dance aims at revealing the best dance crew in Nigeria, Hero Daniels will be anchoring the show alongside Pelumi Buari while Sashin Kandhai and Kenneth Agabata will work as choreographers/mentors. Starting on television in August 2022, the reality dance show is expected to run for 10 weeks with production for the top 16 finalists selected from more than 350 entries across Nigeria. The winner is scheduled to get a grand cash prize of a N5million while winning teams will also get prize hampers. Dance Naija Dance is expected to air in 52 countries in Africa and the Indian Ocean Islands. ZEE Africa CEO (Sub-Saharan Africa, Indian Ocean Islands), Somnath Malakar said “Knowing full well how Zee World is important to the family entertainment needs in Nigeria, we have taken steps to ensure that we would always deliver. There is a deep love for Zee World among Nigerians and Zee World has become part of our lifestyles. Introducing this show is one of our ways to thank Nigerians for all the love they have shown to us over the years. Nigerians are notable for their incredible dancing talents.”