A memorable metaphor for a patriotic medical practitioner emerged in Nigeria in 2014 when the late Dr. Stella Ameyor Adadevoh who sacrificially restrained  and quarantined the Ebola virus victim, Patrick Sawyer, from Liberia, an action that cost her her life and saved many Nigerians that would have been victims. She remains a beacon for every Nigerian, more so those in the medical field. She epitomised  the essence of the Hippocratic oath. She bought immortality with that singular act of bravery and commitment. Even though the recent National Productivity Order of Merit (NPOM) Award to the late doctor is by no means her first posthumous award, the significance of this one is commendable and she is very deserving of the honour- even if post-humously. If the title of the award is anything to go by, then the late doctor must be smiling down the country in appreciation. Again, the award sends a profound message to citizens about patriotism and commitment to the welfare of the larger society. The award again comes at a very delicate time not just on a global level with COVID-19 but on a national level with incessant outbreak of certain epidemics like Lassa Fever, cholera and very recently, Monkey pox. Those in the medical fieal need this incentive. The brain-drain in Nigeria’s health sector has increased in the last five years as practitioners rush abroad in search of better conditions of service and better pay. Rewarding a woman like the late doctor can be an inspiration to those who in their patriotic zeal decide to stay back to serve. It also sends a message to politicians in their do-or-die politics that one can serve from any sector.   Ex-SGF Lawal denies promoting religious violence     Prof leads 34 lawyers to defend Deborah’s killer-suspects     New money laundering Act bans operation of secret accounts   We however feel some unease with the fact that some public officers whose productivity cannot be proved beyond their presence in the corridors of power were equally recipients of a ‘National Productivity Merit Award’ . This is not a new trend though, most national awards in Nigeria often get criticised for being awarded to less deserving individuals.  There is a reason the late Dr. Stella Umeyor Adadevoh’s name made media headlines. It is obvious her productivity was not questionable. National award of any nomenclature carries with it an eternal signature of value that must be earned and stand the test of time in terms of the worthiness of the recipients. For a country with a socio-cultural attachment and value for a variety of titles and sobriquets, we must be very careful not to cheapen awards by giving them to the undeserving. Awards are as much a reward as it is a statement for posterity about excellence that is truly seen and felt by people, no matter the field. While we commend the government for rewarding all those who earned the awards, we feel that productivity awards must not just be given to the high and mighty, to borrow a local social mantra. There are regular and lowly placed Nigerians doing great things in their little corners. Recently, a policewoman in Port Harcourt was caught on a viral video controlling traffic under a heavy downpour without any form of protection like a raincoat or umbrella. For a police force that has one of the lowest approval ratings amongst Nigerians, she has shown patriotism and commitment. There are many like her across different fields in Nigeria. The handlers of the awards must widen their search. In these very trying times, our gallant soldiers risking their lives fighting a plethora of terrorist gangs in the country can be encouraged with some recognition even if their job schedule is obviously fraught with dangers. The country must widen the scope of selection in a country where there is so much distrust and skepticism between the leaders and the led. Transparent, free and credible awards are like national treasures awarded to citizens not just as a token of recognition but as a reward for good citizenship and an inspiration to others. Late Dr. Adadevoh is now a national icon even in death, but we still have deserving citizens who would appreciate a reward while alive. Better late than never.