“How can we say we are fighting corruption under this situation? The Customs Act says you must send in your audited accounts, six months into another financial year. We must clear the outstanding unaudited accounts.  What the President does with this will tell us how we are fighting corruption.” (Senator Matthew Uroghide, Chairman, Senate Public Accounts Committee (SPAC) – 21st February 2020, Punch newspapers. It was the late Professor Chinua Achebe, highly and globally referred author, novelist and social critic, that opined that, simply and squarely stated, Nigeria’s problem emanates from inept and rudderless leadership. This columnist while conducting his PhD research studies in Malaysia centred on followership controverted this stand and stake of Achebe with the cognitive notion that followership failure, in a democratic setting, is responsible for the country’s woes. Many may not concur with this columnist in this controversial leadership-followership circus or conundrum. In Yoruba common parlance, it is said that: “ki a ti ibi isana kiyesi ogun” (meaning: it is good to observe the way a stick of match produces fire as a patterned behaviour of a charm or amulet). In a melodrama that occurred during the Senate Public Account Committee (SPAC) reported in the Punch of 21st February 2020, there was an alleged query raised by the Office of Auditor General of the Federation regarding a discrepancy of twenty-eight billion Naira (N28b). In the original submission to the SPAC by the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation, there was non-reporting of this figure. The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) raised an eyebrow that all collections and remittances of NCS are automated. In a swift response, the Accountant General evasively stated that the seeming discrepancy was already appropriated as the 2015 ECOWAS Stabilization Fund to which there was no empirical documentation to substantiate. The whole issue was allowed to rest untidily that way! Swept under the carpet? The Senator Matthew Uroghide-led SPAC was an unfinished business worth torch lighting specifically with recurring incidences of unaudited accounts of many MDAs to the scale and span of five years and over! What a country with intent in crippling and checkmating corruption!! In corroborating Albert Einstein, it is insanity when we do the same thing over and over whilst expecting different results. The erstwhile Chairman of SPAC, Senator Matthew Uroghide, in exasperation stated: “the Customs Act says you must send in your audited accounts, six months into another financial year.” As we speak, has there been any move on the part of the Federal Government to enforce compliance with this Act? What is the present National Assembly (NASS) doing to ensure compliance and dealing with errant MDAs? Is NASS doing anything tangible to review our archaic and atavistic laws that allow someone stealing billions to spend six months behind bars with payment of paltry amount while the seemingly hungry, common criminal who stole ten tubers of yam was to spend five years in prison? Was there any query from the Presidency regarding this incident to the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation? In the book titled: “Tipping Point” written by the best-selling author, Malcom Gladwell, it was discovered that small crimes whilst not punished graduated into big crimes in New York, USA. Before leaving this matter, it is noteworthy to mention that the Accountant General in office then in 2015 is the same Ahmed Idris, the recently suspended Accountant General of the Federation indicted for disappearing from the treasury the humongous sum of eighty billion Naira (N80b). One can posit: is Malcolm Gladwell not right that small criminals if not checkmated will become big time criminals? Mr. President: Let us begin somewhere This present government of President Muhammadu Buhari has exactly one year in office. It is not too late to insert some fiscal controls into governance to apparently checkmate and cripple corruption. Firstly, there should be updated audited accounts for all MDAs. The government can set aside a space of six months for all MDAs to comply. Secondly, external auditors should be contacted and consulted to look at the books of all revenue generating MDAs. The report should not just be submitted to the government but be published for public scrutiny. Thirdly, globally acclaimed experts should be engaged to inculcate into our fiscal systems controls via exploiting modern technology that will sound alarm once there is a probable corruption within the system. Fourthly, heads of MDAs cum Accountant General of the Federation should be given less power to access funds on behalf of the government even though this may initially introduce some sort of red-tapism, but it will duly serve as a form of probity, accountability and transparency. The system should inculcate multi-layer endorsements before there is release of funds as it is done in countries like Singapore. Fifthly, payment of services rendered by the government should not be through cash but through e-format. In Singapore for instance, there is a cash card accepted in public places to pay for public goods and services. There are loading points within the city-state-nation where owners of cash cards can credit their cards. Mr. President: Do we need a loan from China? In the last one week, the news wave has been hit with heist at the high echelon of the government at the centre. It is indeed worrisome for a wobbling economy struggling to survive. Imagine this occurring in the midst of a perennial Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) strike and gargantuan funds being expended in both subsidy payment and debt-servicing. Definitely, it is not going to be a tea party for the incoming president come 29th May 2023. First to be reported was the alleged klepto-treasury manager, Accountant General of the Federation, of a humongous sum of eighty billion Naira (N80b). He has since been suspended from office while he had earlier been picked up by the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC). In the same vein, before the dust settled, the former Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Nsima Ekere was on the hook of EFCC for alleged diversion of forty-seven billion Naira (N47b). This according to Channels Television was done through registered contractors belonging to the agency of government. Coming on the heels of Ekere was that of another alleged heist committed by the Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Bashir Yusuf Jamoh. In a widely circulated online publication laced with seemingly undeniable details, NIMASA helmsman was accused of looting alleged sums of N1.5trillion and $9.5million belonging to the agency. If this is confirmed by EFCC, even as Dr. Jamoh himself reported to be a kinsman of Mr. President, has officially written to EFCC to probe it further, it will be a landmark heist – first time thieving will be in trillion! The rate of corruption thrives in high places, with puerile and pedestrian punishment meted to actors caught in the act, if care is not taken, the whole vault of the Central Bank will be emptied one day while security men just “tanda for outside dey watch!” About the last one year, it would be interesting and intriguing itemizing the alleged heist in the MDAs of the federal government, even at subnational level as well. These are some of the major ones: Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (Ahmed Idris)         N80 billion   Obasanjo and his ‘touch of madness’     How 31 free food seekers die in Rivers church stampede     2023: Protests trail APC guber primaries as suspended priest…   Office of the MD, NDDC (Nsima Ekere)                     N47 billion Office of DG, NIMASA (Bashir Jamoh)                                                      N1.5 trillion Office of the CEO/MD, FMBN (Gimba Yau Kumo)                  N31 billion Office of the MD, NPA (Hadiza Bala Usman)                 N165 billion Office of the Accountant General of Rivers State (Siminaliayi Fubara)                    N435 billion Is the Federal Government serious in moving Nigeria forward? President Muhammadu Buhari, as the father of this house called Nigeria, must not allow this house to fall even as the cracks are widening. It is both worrisome and irksome that some of the cracks are arising from the foundation. EFCC should be allowed to wield the big stick no matter whose ox is gored in the process! It is instructive for the Federal Government to pay attention to the tinkering of legal luminary, Mr. Femi Falana, SAN, faulting the suspension of the Accountant General of the Federation, Mr. Ahmed Idris by the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning as illegal as only the President could suspend or sack Idris in consonance with the Constitution. According to Falana: