Access Bank Plc, Fidelity Bank Plc and Abbey Mortgage Bank are some of the financial institutions working with Park101,  a luxury water front property in Ibeju-Lekki axis, Lagos on structured funding for property buyers. Speaking during Park101 Real Estate conference in Lagos, Group Chief Operating Officer, Park101, Kayode Adegoye, said the financial institutions will be supporting prospective property buyers to secure funding. He said the banks were waiting to finance property purchase for interested buyers. Adegoye said buyers can go for the category of investment that suit their income. “We are working with a lot of market providers that have indicated interest to finance buyers. So, funding is not a problem for prospective buyers. We also have vehicles that will support those that would want to invest in the project. The plan starts from N1 million upwards,” he said. Adegoye added that  activities  are gradually picking up in the axis, with the planned take-off of  the Dangote Fertiliser Plant, Dangote Refinery, and Deep Sea Port,  within the Ibeju-Lekki axis. “We are confident that when these activities pick up fully, the investment will be a good buy for investors,” he said. “In this estate, there are about 175 units, 20 builders,  four service buildings, hotel and resort as well as a shopping mall,” he stated.   Stanbic IBTC offers 100 youths scholarship     AFEX leads Agric, Commodities Exchange list     Ecobank’s webinar for workers coming   Adegoye said  early bird discounts involve three months flexible payment without interest to buyers of the several properties on sale. He said buyers can spread payment over a longer period of time, and enjoy different payment plan depending on cashflow situation. He said a group of people could buy a single or multiple units. “They can spread payment over a longer period, divide the unit cost across a group of people buying the unit together and allow different payment plan depending on cashflow situation,” he said. He said the PARK 101 is located in the emerging industrial hub at Ibeju-Lekki area of Lagos State. “Kissed by the sun with picturesque views, the property offers tastefuly finished, affordable luxury, high-end penthouses, duplexes and apartments overlooking nature. “We are confident that the surge in the demand for temporary accommodations around the area by professionals could be met by apartments at Park101. “Offering exclusivity, Park 101 residents enjoy stunning views, direct access to a private beach, swimming pools, private cinema, gym, landscaped gardens, kids play area, 24-hour security among other comforts. “Built to high standards with luxury finish specifications, all bedrooms are en-suite and have large terraces to enjoy al-fresco entertaining of the resort,” he said.