”…Beware of a calamity that may afflict, not only the transgressors amongst you, but also the innocent ones, and, know that Allah’s retribution can be very severe…..” Q. 8:25    Writing a drama is like conceiving a pregnancy in the womb of a woman. For the drama to be practically actable, the writer must take into consideration, not only the theme, the setting and the characters, but also the complications in such a drama as they build up spirally to the climax. The writer must also think of the anticlimax of the drama as well as its possible denouement. Nothing shows the ingenuousness of a playwright, as vividly as the crew of actors that put into action, the script that gives birth to the drama in question. The process is like delivering a pregnant woman of her pregnancy. If the delivery process is not carefully handled, the deliverer may end up becoming an undertaker. And, that is when a drama is said to be tragic. Brilliant students of literature must have perceived today’s entire world as a paradoxical theatre in which about eight billion human beings, including over 200 million Nigerians, are watching varieties of drama, in a single theatre. For either ecstasy or dismay the viewers may randomly roar into controversies or zoom into anxiety, as the drama progresses. But the main concern of each viewer is what may become of his favourite character.   The Dramatic Colony In today’s global drama against which we had been warned in the Qur’an as quoted above, the concern of this columnist in today’s article is the ‘colony’ called Nigeria. This is not just because the colony is my immediate and paramount constituency but also because Nigeria is the heart of Africa. And, if anything negative happens to her, the whole of Africa will not be at rest. Today, it is evident that the federal government of Nigeria is not prepared to work for the country’s existence as a unified entity. Meanwhile, the colonialists who designed and imposed the guidelines of this country on its inhabitants had technically predicted the length of her existence as a country. The centenary anniversary of Nigeria, as a country, was expected to have come up at the beginning of 2014 when the country attained the age of 100 years. But, having gone beyond that predicted age, no one except the Almighty Allah, is sure of what may become of Nigeria subsequently. This is because the same deliverers of Nigeria as a country have prepared a mausoleum for her in anticipation of her funeral. A clandestine script was unveiled in 1995 predicting a tragic absurdity awaiting the most populous African country. The contents of the script revealed that this heart of Africa called Nigeria was heading for a break up by the year 2015 when she would be 101 years old. The designers of that devilish agenda had set a timeframe of 20 years for its execution without suggesting any positive alternative. And, to portray their dream as a realisable one, they kept hammering the probability of the success of that obnoxious project citing some hazardous occurrences in the land as reason. Incidentally, that was the year in which the evil proposition began to receive a helping hand by the government that proposed a dubious national confab with a hidden agenda.   Imperialist Strategy For students of International Relations, such a prediction cannot be strange. It is part of the strategies often used by the imperialists, either to re-colonize some old colonies that had been granted partial freedom, or to scoop on, and, dominate the economies of such countries with a typical capitalist tendency. As a result of such an imperial strategy, Poland had once ceased to be a country for about 123 years when it was partitioned about four times by Russia, Prussia and Austria in 1772, 1792 and 1795. And, for well over a century, thereafter, the country was not in existence. But the Polish people never gave up the resilient spirit of regaining their independence until the country was fully revived after the World War I in 1918. In contemporary time, the modern day imperialists have been doing the same successfully in some other countries none of which is now firmly on her feet. Countries like Vietnam, Korea, Yemen, China, Iran, Syria, Iraq, Libya, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Yugoslavia, Somalia, Sudan, Palestine and lately the entire Arab nations, all of which have had their bitter share of the subtle pillage, can testify to this assertion.  It is a modern day equivalence of the 1884/1885 partition of Africa carried out in Berlin, Germany, by the European imperialists, which led to the colonization of the black continent. If any of the above countries had resisted that obnoxious project at the planning stage and stood their grand in objection to colonial imperialism, perhaps the world would have been spared the throat-cutting threats posed today by the United States and her NATO allies against what they perceive as lesser nations. Incidentally, the US had, once, been a victim of this same imperialists’ guillotine especially in the hands of Britain. Yet, the cult of capitalism which has now become their common bond would not allow the duo of Britain and US (which had been mutually antagonistic) to dwell differently because it is only in such collaboration that the gains of their common interest can be accomplished. Unfortunately, Nigeria doesn’t seem to have learned any lesson from countries that had been tricked into toeing the imperialists’ path hook, line and sinker. Rather than looking inwards for solution to our domestic problems as the US did in her time of resistance to oppression, our own government does not only beckon to Uncle Sam for solution even to a minor problem but also cries out randomly to the collective body of imperialists for help. The official behaviour of Nigerian government is just like that of a baby who has fully adapted to being spoon-fed, at all times, even while asleep. Today, Nigerian government can hardly think on anything without reference to American or European example.   Deceptive Propaganda Whereas some progressive countries like Japan, China, India, Brazil and even the United States in their days of search for growth and development shut their doors to the world and made do with whatever they could produce internally which was why their sudden zoom into the limelight came to the world as a surprise, this has never taught Nigeria any lesson. Now, all that matters here is empty and monotonous noise about becoming one of the biggest economies in uncertain years even when it is crystal clear that such wishful aspiration can only end up in a forlorn. No truly progressive country in modern time has ever indulged in such wishful but empty propaganda without failing. What would have ordinarily justified such propaganda is a surprise zooming into the global economic stage as the above listed countries had done.   SELF ASSESSMENT     Zakatul Fitr     MATING IN RAMADAN 1   It is only an intellectually handicapped country, which is ironically wealthy, materially, but lacking in vision, that can blindly embark on such hopeless propaganda, even when over 75% of her citizens wallow in penury. Rather than indulging in deceptive propaganda, what our government ought to have told us is how billions of Dollars allegedly voted for revamping our moribund electricity vamoosed without any resultant iota of power. Or better still, how was the billions of dollars allegedly recovered from General Abacha’s loot shared among the national thieves called leaders? At least we are yet to know what happened to multi-billion naira realized from the so-called privatization policy that threw our national economy into taters. We also need to know something about the scandalously embezzled billions of naira realized from the callous increase on fuel price in January 2012 and many others of the like. On the other hand, the government ought to have shown Nigerians the blueprint that triggered us to embark on an empty propaganda about year 2020, which ended up in another forlorn.   Foreign Interference Now, by inviting some foreign imperialist powers including the US and Israel to help resolve the internal problem of insecurity in Nigeria, has the government not   admitted its incompetence in protecting the citizenry and thereby surrendering its authority to the invited countries while awarding contracts for image laundering abroad? And, with such plan has this not also begun to compound the existing problems by externalising those internal affairs? After all, these invited countries have their own internal problems which they endeavour to solve without contracting it to any foreign country. Security of a country is like the heart in human body. Handing it over to someone else is like paving way for one’s fortuitous death. No serious government will ever trivialize the existence of its nation to that extent. We all know that whoever pays the piper must surely dictate the tune. Iraq, Libya and Pakistan are living examples confirming that in diplomacy, a friend today may become an enemy tomorrow. Yes, in the name of solving Nigeria’s problem even when they have been unable to solve theirs, the invited countries may bring their arsenal to subdue some government’s perceived and imaginary enemies. But what is likely to happen thereafter is the question which many generations of Nigerians may not be able to answer for decades, if not for centuries, in future. This has happened in most of the countries which solicited for military intervention of the imperialist countries. Today, those countries are biting their fingers in total regret. Yet, Nigeria’s ruling class which sees power as a matter of life and death is bent on forcing the country into the league of hopeless nations through desperation. A government is said to be in power only if it is believed to be capable of protecting its citizenry and defend the territorial integrity of the concerned nation. Any government that is incapable of doing this, but rather decides to throw the gate of the nation’s security open to foreigners for whatever reason, is unfit to be called a government.   The Qur’an Speaks Globally, the US and Israel are known for their belligerence and implacable transgression against nations that refuse to comply with their imperialist policies. And, it is probably in reference to such imperialist powers that Allah had warned mankind in the Qur’an over a millennium and a half ago thus: “When imperialists enter a territory they audaciously pillage and brutally destroy it even as they subjugate the juggernauts therein to the level of servitude”. Q. 12: 22 The real problem of Nigeria is neither the destructive anti-economic activities of the South-south militants, nor that of the greedily callous South East Kidnapers nor even that of the heartless bloodletting vandalism of Boko Haram. It is rather the willingness of the so-called government to reduce the country into an incubator of problems while relying on foreign imperialists for solution, even when such imperialists cannot solve their own domestic problems. It is like the case of an infamy who consumes poison while depending on an antidote for safety. In an axiomatic stanza, an Arab poet once opined thus: “We all blame our time for our misdemeanour; whereas, the misdemeanour blamed on our time is actually in us; We smear time with all types of iniquities and yet expect time to cleans us of any blame; Were time endowed with mouth to comment about us; it would have blamed us for generating all crimes; No hyena eats the flesh of fellow hyena; as human beings eat the flesh men that eat fellow human beings with impunity”.   Governmental Atrocities The truth of the matter is that the roots of the multi-dimensional problems confronting Nigeria, today, are traceable mostly to the corridors of our government. Of all the vices that currently constitute insuperable problems for Nigeria, particularly corruption and injustice, none originated from a source other that of the government. The calibre of people involved in various high profile corruption cases since 1999 have confirmed this assertion. How, on earth, can any sensible person justify the case of immunity clause deliberately injected into our constitution to protect stealing of public funds either by the President or Governors in a country where overwhelming majority of people are so wretched that they can hardly afford even one meal per day despite the enormous wealth with which we are naturally endowed? And this so-called constitution was never subjected to any referendum as a way of assessing its general acceptability in the first instance. The real absurdity in that immunity clause is not just in chasing around the protected public thieves after vacating office but also in setting up anti-corruption agencies as a political camouflage. For God’ sake if a person aids a thief in casting away his property has he not become an accomplice in stealing that property? What justification will such a person have in wanting to prosecute such a thief? Those who injected immunity clause into our constitution as well as those who are in positions to remove it but rather choose to retain it are together accomplices in the entrenchment and spread of corruption in the land. Ordinarily, such people should never have moral right to talk of fighting corruption because they are its creators and sustainers but we live in a shameless country where conscience does not matter. We are our own problems. We know the sources of what we call problems and we incubate them.  We know how to proffer solution to those problems but like ‘lotus eaters’, we are so much drunk of illegality that it has become so difficult, if not impossible, for us to part with it. Now, as we are planning to start importing imperial mercenaries into the country to solve our immediate problems, we must not forget the social and financial implications of such a venture. And, we must remember that those mercenaries will like to find a permanent seat here even if they will have to invent new problems for us in order to justify their profitable stay. This admonition may taste bitter, especially, to those in government, who may have hidden agenda, but Allah’s words will never be in want of relevance. They are regularly accompanied by relevances. Allah warns us in Qur’an 13:11 thus: “Surely, Allah will not change the situation of a nation or a community until the citizens therein have resolved to change their obnoxious attitudes that warrant the need for change”. Whoever wants equity to prevail must come up with clean hands. Inviting certain imperialists to come and act the imperialists’ evil script, in Nigeria, as a way of obliterating insecurity, will do no one any good. Think before you act. God save Nigeria!