Joseph Ameh aka Papii J Ameh has reacted to infidelity allegations levelled against him by his ex-wife, Kaffy. The professional dancer, in a recent interview with Chude Jideonwo, gave more insights into her failed marriage. She alleged her husband did not only cheat on her with strangers but also slept with her best friends and people she generally knew. She said: “If I had known I won’t have jumped into that fire. I thought he was just sleeping with strangers but I found out he was sleeping with my best friends, people I knew… “I was thinking at the beginning that I had found someone to completely make me happy but that was selfish thinking, no human being should be your source of happiness. “When you see him, you will think he can’t even hurt a fly cos he is always calm and he has now made me afraid of calm people cos hmm, inside he is.   Simi, Adekunle celebrate daughter at two     Mr Sabinus sues Peak, Gala over alleged intellectual theft     What you must do to call anyone broke-Ruth Kadiri   “I held him in high regard until I had to ask him why he was treating me the way he was. I asked him, “What do you have against me, that is making you sleep around and with my best friends?” Ameh, the official drummer of the P-Square band, who has remained mum over the breakup of his marriage with celebrated dance queen Kaffy has taken to his Instagram page to react to the allegation of infidelity leveled against him. In his post, Papii J refuted ever sleeping with his ex-wife’s best friend or close pals and advised she moved on with her life noting the end of their marriage shouldn’t be the end of their lives. He wrote: “I will make this as brief as possible. I made a lot of silly mistakes in my life and in my marriage,’ take full responsibility of all my foolishness with absolutely no excuses. “However, I never slept with your best friend or close pals-neither have I ever been violent towards you, contrary to the narratives flying around about me. “Anyway, it has been a year since the marriage officially ended. I’ve tried to move on, and I advise you to do the same too. I wish all the very best to both of us as we move on maturely. “The end of our marriage should not be the end of our lives. This is the first and last time I will speak on this subject.”