Senator Uba Sani has won the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary in Kaduna State. The Kadina Central Senator defeated two other aspirants in the race. He polled 1,149 votes while Bashir Abubakar scored 37 votes and Sani Shaaban got 10 votes. The Returning Officer for the primary election, which was concluded around 2:30am on Friday, Mr Anachuna Henry, said Sani having scored the highest of the total votes cast, is returned elected.   Sen Otu wins APC guber primary in Cross River     CUPP spokesman picks PDP Reps ticket     And God decided to show up, by Femi Adesina   Uba expressed appreciation to the delegates for the confidence reposed on him and promised to reach out to other aspirants for their support to ensure victory of the party at the general elections. He promised to build on the wonderful legacies of Governor Nasir El-Rufai, tackle numerous challenges before the statye and forge unity in Kaduna. According to him: “For long we waited for this moment. By the special grace of God we are witnesses to this glorious moment. I am deeply humbled and delighted to stand before this distinguished gathering of our party delegates, top officials and supporters to deliver this acceptance speech. “This is your victory. This is your moment. This is the beginning of the journey of consolidation and continuity. We shall build on the wonderful legacies of our dear leader, the irrepressible Governor Nasir El-Rufai. Together we shall tackle our challenges and forge unity among our people. “Today’s governorship primary is a showpiece of superb organization, display of decency, patience and discipline by delegates. We have shown that we believe in democracy and are ready to follow the rule of law and due process. Democracy is about participation. Once people are allowed to express their free will, the process and outcome is a beauty to behold. “I therefore thank my co-contestants, Alhaji Mohammed Sani Sha’aban and Alhaji Bashir Abubakar for their belief in the democratic process. I will reach out to these great politicians and strategists and extend my hand of fellowship to them. I would deeply appreciate it if they can work together with me to take Kaduna State to higher heights.”