Born in captivity, the newborn baby girl is the youngest captive of violent characters who attacked a train on the Abuja-Kaduna route on March 28.  She became a captive because her abducted mother was one. Her photograph, released on April 27 by their captors, a report said, showed her “dressed in pink clothes and a light lemon cap, with her eyes closed.” She has started life in horrible circumstances, in a den of kidnappers who may well be terrorists. There is no information on her mother’s identity. Who is her father? How will she be named? How long will she spend in captivity? The same captors had earlier released four photos showing 62 kidnappees from the same train attack in four groups.  There were 23 people in one of the pictures, 18 women, including a woman in her eighties said to be diabetic, and five children (two females and three males).  Another photo showed 17 men, including a foreigner; another showed 16 people. There were six people in yet another, one of them with a bandaged leg. The release of these pictures can be described as photo terrorism because of their effect on the public. They are terrorising.  They are statements on insecurity and public vulnerability. Their release was possibly timed for effect as it happened about a month after the terror attack. The Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) had said there were 362 people on board the train when gunmen blew up a section of track and attacked the passengers. Eight passengers were killed, 41 injured, and many were abducted. The incident was yet another sad manifestation of increasing insecurity.  According to a report based on data analysis by a major online medium, 1,743 Nigerians were killed in the first quarter of 2022 as a result of insecurity. It is still unclear how many people were abducted from the train, and the released pictures may not be sufficient evidence of the number of abductees. The Federal Government’s response to the train attack leaves much to be desired. Nearly a month after the incident, the National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno, after a security meeting on April 21, said President Muhammadu Buhari had “directed all the operational and intelligence elements” to rescue all captives wherever they may be in the country. Monguno said: “The first assignment he has given to the security agencies, especially the armed forces and the police is to rescue those that are in captivity, not just those that were captured during the last train incident, but those that have been in captivity in other parts of the country.” It remains to be seen if the president’s order will make a difference. The government’s ineffective response explains why insecurity has escalated. The release of the Managing Director of Bank of Agriculture, Alwan Ali-Hassan, exposed the government’s lethargy. He is the only captive set loose so far among those kidnapped in the train attack. He was said to have been freed on compassionate grounds, but it is believed that a ransom was paid to get him released. The identities of the kidnappers are unknown, and their motive is a mystery.  Are they just bandits or members of the dreaded terrorist group Boko Haram? One of the masked gunmen in a video showing the bank chief before his release said the government knew what they wanted “and it’s not money.”  He addressed the government, saying threateningly “So, it’s left to you to hasten and do what we need from you; if not, we’ll do what we want to do to them.” The authorities have not clarified what they want. But there is speculation that they want to swap their captives for their leaders who are in detention.   Train attack: Terrorists free Ango Abdullahi’s son     We are neglected, two Lagos slums cry out for help!     Umar’s comeuppance   According to a relative of one of the kidnapped victims of the train attack who visited the released managing director, the abductees were made to trek for five days to a forest in Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State.  ”He said after being driven from the scene of the attack for several kilometres into the bush, the bandits dropped them and made them trek from that point. “He said they had stopovers at several transit camps of the bandits; that at every point, they would think they had gotten to their destination, but they would just command them to start trekking again. “He said they moved for five days before they arrived at the terrorists’ main camp somewhere in the forest around Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State.” It is puzzling that the security agencies have not acted on this information in the public domain. What are they waiting for? They clearly have useful information to deal with the situation but are not using the information.  That’s certainly not how to tackle insecurity. The government has not demonstrated a sense of urgency in fighting insecurity.  For instance, leaked minutes showed that Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi had, on September 24, 2021,  asked the Federal Executive Council (FEC) to “approve the award of contract for the procurement and installation of electronic surveillance system and interrogation unit on the Abuja (Idu)-Kaduna (Rigasa) 200km railway monitoring rail intrusion detection system and emergency response system in favour of Messrs Mogjan Nigeria Limited/Cagewox Dot Net Limited in the sum of N3, 780,827,410.66 inclusive of 7.5 per cent VAT with a completion period of four months.” The minutes also showed that the council, unsatisfied with the minister’s proposal, had asked him to provide certain necessary details and re-present an improved proposal on the security matter. The horrific train attack happened more than six months after the said meeting. It seems nothing happened concerning the proposal in the period, which amounted to collective failure. What is the situation now on the proposed security equipment? It is curious that the Senate is chasing shadows regarding kidnapping, banditry and terrorism, with the recent amendment to Terrorism (Prevention) Act, 2013, which seeks to outlaw the payment of ransom to abductors and terrorists for the release of any person who has been wrongfully confined, imprisoned or kidnapped. The chairman of the Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, Opeyemi Bamidele (All Progressives Congress (APC), Ekiti Central), explained that the legislation is to discourage kidnapping for ransom, which is spreading menacingly across the country. It would be sent to the House of Representatives for concurrence and then to the president for assent. But the real issue is state incapacity, which ultimately encourages ransom payment in kidnap cases. The authorities failed to protect the train passengers, and have failed to rescue the train attack captives.   That’s the real problem.