Britain’s Queen Elizabeth, on Tuesday, made a surprise appearance at a ceremony to mark the completion of a long-awaited London train line named in her honour. Elizabeth, wearing a bright yellow hat and coat, using a walking stick, was joined by her youngest son Edward and Prime Minister Boris Johnson as she unveiled a plaque at Paddington Station. It was the latest public outing for the 96-year-old monarch, in spite of missing the opening of parliament for the first time in almost six decades last week due to what Buckingham Palace calls “episodic mobility issues.’’ A Buckingham Palace spokesperson said “in a happy development Her Majesty The Queen is attending today’s event to mark the completion of the Elizabeth line.’’ The 24-billion-dollar rail project was originally due to be opened in December 2018, but had been repeatedly delayed by issues with safety testing and signaling systems, even before the onset of the pandemic. Originally named ‘Crossrail’, the Elizabeth Line will connect destinations west of London, including Heathrow airport and Reading with Shenfield in the East. It will open to the public on May 24.   “My wife left me and went to Canada”, man tells court     Cultists kill 36-year-old man in Badagry     Teacher seeks divorce over fear of being beaten to death   Elizabeth has been seen in public on only a few occasions since spending a night in hospital in October 2021 for an unspecified illness, after which she was told to rest by her doctors. She has since carried out nearly all her duties either remotely or in person at her Windsor Castle home and did not attend the state opening of parliament. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said it was “wonderful” to see the queen open the train line, “and she was in such fine form”. He said it was time to think about a new Crossrail line running north-south through London, which was put on hold during the COVID-19 pandemic. “I think we should be getting on with that. People say it is all changed, people are working from home. I profoundly disagree. Public transport is the thing that gives people opportunities,” he added. (Reuters/NAN)