Life took a positive swing for Isau Ogunkunle after he settled for table tennis following years of being a cobbler in the ancient city of Abeokuta. The national champion made his Paralympic Games debut at Tokyo 2020 albeit without winning any medal. Now ranked 11th in men’s class four, Ogunkunle is hoping to atone for his Tokyo 2020 second-round exit at the forthcoming Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games in the UK later this year. OLALEKAN OKUSAN reports.   At 36, Isau Ogunkunle is enjoying the best of his career as the national champion in men’s class four as well as African championships silver medallist. But unlike other athletes that embraced table tennis early in life, Ogunkunle’s romance with the sport did not start until 12 years ago. The then young vibrant Ogunkunle was confined to the wheelchair when he was 16 after being struck by an illness that affected his limbs.   “I was 16 when I fell sick and this sickness made my limbs to be lifeless and this was what made me start using a wheelchair,” Ogunkunle recalled with nostalgic feelings. “For four years after this sickness, I was indoors thinking my life had been ruined by the injury.   “But in order to be relevant in life, I became a shoe cobbler which I was doing until 2010 when I was introduced to table tennis; and One year after starting the game, I became Nigeria national champion in class 4.”   By fate, he worked his way into the national team and made his international debut at the 2011 African Championships in Egypt where he settled for bronze.   “In 2011, I played against Egypt’s Mohamed Sameh Eid for the first time which he won 3-0,  and since then, we have been friends as we communicate with each other regularly; he became my idol in the game,” Ogunkunle further said.   Despite several efforts,   Yet  Ogunkunle’s inability to feature regularly in competitions denied him the chance to make it to the Paralympic Games until luck smiled on him in 2019 when he was selected for the African Championships in Egypt.   Though he lost in the final to his idolized friend, Sameh Eid, Ogunkunle’s performance enhanced his world rating which earned him a place in Tokyo 2020’     UCL final comes alive on GOTv      PARIS 2O22: Cubana hosts Liverpool, Real UCL showdown     US Tour:  Peseiro parleys Eagles’ coaching crew   His journey in Japan ended in the second round but the experience would linger in the memory of the National Sports Festival Champion.   “I must say that playing table tennis has helped my physical ability because before I started table tennis, I was already bending but with table tennis, my health has improved drastically,” he admitted.   For Ogunkunle, life has taken a turn for the better since he cemented his romance with table tennis and he has become a force to be reckoned with on the continent.   Apart from the exposure coupled with the fame, Ogunkunle agreed table tennis has improved his wellness.   He admitted: “I thank God that table tennis has changed my life for good. If I did not know how to play table tennis, I might not have achieved all I did in life and I give God the glory since table tennis has changed my life.   “All that I am thinking about now is table tennis and how to improve on my rankings in the world of table tennis.”   Ogunkunle who was part of the GAPS Programme leading to the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games described the experience as rewarding.   The GAPS Camp was a five-day training camp in Birmingham offering a range of services including expert coaching, sports science, sports medicine, knowledge transfer, and a high-performance training experience.   “The experience that I gathered in that programme in Birmingham is rewarding because I have never had that kind of experience in my life. So, it was a very good experience and it helped me a lot in my table tennis career,” he said. . “Despite the lack of support from Ogun State, I am not bothered but I will remain focused until I achieve my dream of becoming a world champion.   “My expectation for the 2022 Commonwealth Games is to win gold and I will be fully prepared to win the gold for Nigeria.   “I’m making a promise, if proper arrangements are on the ground, good facilities to train, and the environment we train in are good enough, I promise I will bring the gold from the UK to Nigeria,” he enthused.