In its quest to support the federal government’s objective of achieving food sufficiency and security, Oxford Green Farms Group, a business conglomerate and an agro-allied industry in Africa, has launched an innovative platform known as AgroLyfe. The platform unveiled in in Lagos recently, aims to leverage farming and real estate as well as afford farmers and subscribers the opportunity to create consistent income-earning opportunities as well as generate stable and reliable rental income through farmland acquisition. Justifying the need for the scheme, the CEO, Oxford Green Farms Group, Dr. Goodluck Olatunde Precious, said, “At Oxford Green Farms Group, we want to support the Federal Government’s drive towards self-sustainability in food production. Therefore, we are working towards acquiring 10 million acres of farmland and onboarding 10,000 farmers on our platform within the next five years.   Nigeria Info commences student debate tournament     Explicit Communications hails Veleta     Interglobe IEG, others invest in pharmaceutical production…   “We would love give farmers we are onboarding access to grants and off-takers for their farming to boost capacity and output. We believe this would add up to a 20% boost to Nigeria’s overall food production capacity. To this end, our research team has been relentless in designing an innovative product that is market-fit, appeals to everyone, and creates consistent income-earning opportunities for everyone interested. “This is what our new initiative “AgroLyfe”. It is that child delivered when you marry Agriculture with Real Estate – it is a product that leverages farming and real estate to generate stable and reliable rental income for customers through farmland acquisition. According to him, subscribers on the platform can purchase farmlands for as low as ¦ 100,000 to ¦ 2,000,000, and earn rental income on it every three months, stressing that it has immediately flagged off with four farm locations, including Ijaka in Aiyetoro, Ogun State, Itele in Ijebu, Ogun State, Imala Town, Oke-Ogun, and Ibadan, Oyo State. “And we are adding 20 more locations to this scheme within the next 30-60 days. There is also a flip side of this new product that we will be announcing soon, which is the Farmers’ Cooperative Society for farmers across the 36 states. Our mission is to cover the entire agriculture value chain – from farming to harvesting, processing, storage, transportation, and up to the end-users. The goal is to acquire up to 4 million hectares of arable land across the 36 states of Nigeria and beyond while having more than 10,000 active farmers on this platform,” Dr. Precious concluded.