Till he dropped out of the presidential race last week, few Nigerians were sure of the identities of those who encouraged African Development Bank (AfDB) president Akinwumi Adesina to enter the 2023 presidential race. He seemed acceptable to ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo, but Dr Adesina’s aspiration obviously went beyond the former president. The gaudy but awkward entry of ex-president Goodluck Jonathan was clearly the machination of a cabal in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), a group of zealous plotters cockily pretending to have the ear of President Muhammadu Buhari. If Dr Adesina’s almost furtive entry was nevertheless like a bolt from the blue, that of Dr Jonathan came after months of ethical agonising on his part and importuning from an APC cabal led by former caretaker committee chairman, Mai Mala Buni, Governor of Yobe State. And finally, there was also the dramatic and puzzling entry of Senate President Ahmad Lawan into the race shortly before the curtains were drawn on nomination forms. What is not easily obvious is that the APC puppeteers had for months wrestled with their consciences to find acceptable aspirants other than Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the man who had helped them birth the party and imbued it with a zest for competition and victory. In their minds, they were resigned to rotational presidency, having zoned party offices in the expectation that the South, nay the Southwest, would produce the presidential candidate. They had first tried Dr Jonathan and found him a hard sell. Then they encouraged other Southwest aspirants, including ex-governors and serving governors, to enter the race and test the waters. But these ones too were even harder to sell to a geopolitical zone whose mind seemed made up. Breaking the enigma with the improbable candidacy of the AfDB president easily became a farcical duty. Exasperated and exhausted, the puppeteers decided to cut the Gordian knot by quietly throwing the presidential ticket open, thus their interminable waffling. Since the party has a little over one week to their presidential primary, assuming they can’t cajole the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) into rejigging the electoral timelines, expect them to be silent on their zoning decision on the almighty ticket. Their silence would of course be interpreted as endorsing open ticket. Having in effect thrown the ticket open, some northern APC aspirants belatedly began showing interest in the race. Controversial and hedonistic ex-governor Sani Ahmed of Zamfara State declared his aspiration, but was more or less a red herring. He knew he was headed to a political void. Jigawa State governor Mohammed Badaru Abubakar, a principal member of the troika recklessly moving pawns on the APC chessboard, also expressed his interest after tiring of instigating others into the race. Though an old acquaintance of Asiwaju Tinubu, his aspiration was dead on arrival. Kogi State governor Yahaya Bello, the ultimate contrarian and farcical politician, also threw his hat in the ring. He is too laden with frivolities to soar. Then the puppeteers developed a brain wave: why not drag the disinterested Sen Lawan into the race. He has the reach and contacts and name recognition, not to say a little political heft. Win or lose the nomination, it would not affect his senate presidency anyway. Thus, enter the dragon on the back of possibly the most curious sophistry ever. Justifying his entry, Sen Lawan reasoned: “The fact that (we) came out last speaks volumes, because I didn’t just wake up one morning and say I want to be President. It took a lot of time for those who believe in me to talk to me to also throw my hat in the ring. And after some time, I accepted…I am not running as a northern aspirant because the impression created is that I’m a northern aspirant or that northerners are saying they are not going to allow power to the South. I’m not running as a northern candidate. I’m running as a Nigerian Presidential aspirant and therefore I come with all my qualifications for that office and people should judge me on the basis of what I have to offer.” Two facts are incontrovertible. Contrary to his statement, it is in fact true that he ‘just woke up one morning and wants to be president’. It is also a fact that, thanks to Mr Buni’s unending manipulations and acrimonious politics, Sen Lawan is indeed a ‘northern aspirant’ encouraged to aspire in furtherance of a northern agenda. And finally, it is also a fact that having tasted power and became intoxicated, the core North is uninterested in power shifting southward. Indeed, they have served notice that they will do everything to ensure that a shift does not happen, even if it means enabling the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to claim the crown. Both leading parties are not only playing cat and mouse with themselves to produce two northern candidates, they are also determined to play ducks and drakes with the emotions of the country, fiddling while the country burnt, and indifferent to the conflagrating conditions years of incompetence, divisiveness, and ethnic and religious hubris had predisposed the country to. APC chairman Abdullahi Adamu has simply taken off from where his caretaker predecessor stopped. An irredentist himself, capable of fiery rhetoric, Mr Adamu has endorsed Mr Buni’s plots and embraced his rationalisations. This is why there will be nothing said definitively on zoning or rotation, and all efforts will be geared towards pushing an agenda that is clearly inimical to unity, peace and development. This column maintains that the APC unfortunately does not really have an inspiring philosophy and ideology. Not only has the party become indistinguishable from the PDP, it has also become destitute of imagination and all virtues as well as become inexorably northern to the exclusion of others. The immediate past and current leadership of the party ignore the fact that even in the party’s increasingly crass northernism, there is still a significant and powerful faction of the party that fears the impending backlash against the dangerous and inflammable insularity of the reigning faction. That other faction attempted to regain control of the party during the March coup, but failed because the president, who had initially consented to the drastic measure, developed cold feet. That other faction has endorsed the presidential ticket going South, specifically, for electoral and ethical reasons, Southwest. Under Mr Adamu, the APC is, however, leaning towards open presidential ticket. It will take President Buhari putting his foot down to realign the party to the path of probity. But that will depend on whether he sees and correctly gauges the precariousness of the country sundered by schisms, banditry, insurgency, economic woes, religious extremism, ethnic exceptionalism, and almost total and irredeemable alienation. The president sometimes gives the impression he is astigmatic, unable to define nationhood and identify and distinguish factors leading to state failure. If he somehow rises up to the occasion and miraculously begins to see Nigeria beyond one ethnic group, and his administration beyond the venal afflictions of cabals integrated into his government, he will cut short the madness overtaking his party, rise above the pedestrian by shoring up the noble objectives of his party, and dare rather than ape the PDP which has seemed to lose its soul. But if the president does not intervene on behalf of what is noble and lofty, and he leaves Messrs Buni, Adamu, Badaru, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi governor), and other ethnic supremacists pandering to base regional and religious agenda to run riot in the party and prostitute its soul, the APC, like the PDP, will likely plot the emergence of a northern candidate. Should that happen, should both leading parties engage in this endgame brinkmanship, there will of course be dire consequences. Firstly, the APC, as the ruling party, will lose whatever cohesion it has left, lose the next polls regardless of its bloated membership register, and fracture irreparably. Secondly, the South, perhaps too the Middle Belt, will lose confidence in the nation. The country already teeters on the brink, held together only by the tiniest of sinews, but if a few plotters manipulate and insinuate regional dominance into the body politic, there will be nothing left to hope for. The current restiveness all over the country, which has led to deep and profound cleavages, will gather speed and ultimately engender fragmentation. Thirdly, there will be nothing left to guarantee that elections will even hold. What is keeping the country together, despite minor political controversies among competing zones in the South, is the expectation that if power rotates South, perhaps the situation would not be as irredeemable as feared.   Presidential primaries (3) Endorsements and conclusion     Presidential primaries (2) PDP, Atiku and others     Presidential primaries (1) APC, Tinubu and others   Having badly botched government’s response to the egregious murder of Deborah Samuel, a 200-level student of the Shehu Shagari College of Education in Sokoto, flunked many national policy initiatives, and failed to tackle the country’s costly, unwieldy and untenable political system, President Buhari’s last chance to secure any legacy would be if he manages to deliver a peaceful and transparent transition to the next administration. He has so far kept inexplicably mute on the chicaneries tearing his party apart. He has not set, through persuasion, an inspiring course for his party, perhaps preferring by default to ape the PDP, and he has not even galvanised the country behind noble and unifying causes. To compound these failings with the plot to keep power in the North after his eight years in office would be unforgivable.   Last week, this column applauded President Muhammadu Buhari for his prompt decision to disengage cabinet members pursuing political ambitions. While the public rightly condemned the immorality and illegality of the ministers holding down cabinet positions and simultaneously pursing presidential, governorship and legislative positions, many more Nigerians wondered why the president initially seemed indifferent to the undisciplined and unethical use of federal privileges to advance clearly personal and political ambitions. When the president finally moved against the ministers on May 11 and drove the knife deeper into their backs on May 13 by quickly organising a valedictory session in their honour, it appeared to signpost a new and decisive presidency. It would have been far better had the president never countenanced the abuse in the first instance; but for a presidency long regarded as lethargic, the belated move against the undiscriminating ministers was a promising change the public hoped would be sustained till next May. Presidential spokesmen have not disclosed why the president organised a valedictory session for the ambitious ministers on May 13 despite giving them a May 16 deadline to resign their positions to pursue their political goals. The effect, however, was to put the president in a quandary over what to do with ministers who developed cold feet. By giving them a deadline, it was assumed that those who failed to resign by that date had opted to stay back in government. Information minister Lai Mohammed has consequently struggled with the peculiar mess created by the presidency’s haste, particularly in finding sensible and convincing explanations that help the public to make sense of the actions of the ministers hosted to a valedictory but who had opted to forego their political ambitions. If the fecund Mr Mohammed finds the mid-May events too recondite for his fertile imagination to grapple with, it is not obvious how the president would frame and resolve it. It does no credit to the Buhari administration that some of his ministers have shown so much fecklessness. Their political ambitions are perfectly legitimate, and in fact honourable; and some of them are eminently qualified to seek other and higher political pursuits. Labour minister Chris Ngige has an expansive sense of humour, and is curiously charismatic. But the manner he recanted and the spin he put on his aborted ambition, not to say his eager readiness to forfeit N100m nomination fee, expose him as an extremely devious and cowardly man. Powerful Justice minister Abubakar Malami was too shell-shocked by the president’s readiness to dispense with his services that for much of the week after the mid-May events he was too numbed to say a word. He never thought such a far-reaching decision could be taken outside his purview. Like a worm on a hot stove, he shrunk from his governorship ambition after distributing car largess of monumental proportions and directing scathing and cynical comments at his critics. No less fickleness was expected from the duo of Minister of State for Petroleum Timipre Sylva and Women Affairs minister Pauline Tallen. It was inconceivable that Mr Sylva could ever win the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential nomination which he coveted, not even by the appalling default mode through which he took the governorship of Bayelsa State in 2007. But lightning never strikes the same place twice in his opportunistic politics, especially when his governorship and ministerial records have been undistinguished. Mrs Tallen was more modest in seeking a senatorial seat, but by also quitting the race and burying her ambition so quickly, it became clear that she and the rest of her retreating and disingenuous colleagues, including Mr Malami and Dr Ngige, knew something more about the benefits of ministerial office than the rest of the country or even the trusting President Buhari. There have been some legal interpretations of what it means to ‘resign’ from the cabinet. Does it become effective only after a ‘resignation letter’ has been submitted or after the approving authority, in this case the president, has sent forth his appointees? Whatever the case, the president has little room to indulge his customary dither. When he returns from his UAE trip, he will have to determine whether his hastiness in organising a valedictory session for his politically ambitious appointees was presidential or naïve and untidy. Transport minister Rotimi Amaechi and Education minister (State) Emeka Nwajiuba made the president’s work enormously easy. But neither of them stands a remote possibility of clinching the presidential nomination, of course, not even Mr Amaechi who expects a coronation of a sort; but at least they behaved courageously, responsibly and honourably. How the president eventually grapple with the whirligig of his departing and returning ministers will reflect on the image of his administration. For almost seven years, the administration has been shambolic, insular and often misdirected, particularly after the laconic and seemingly self-effacing Abba Kyari, the president’s former chief of staff, died. And whether the president likes to hear it or not, many Nigerians think the administration has complicated and aggravated the problems of the country instead of healing divisions and propelling the country forward. There is, therefore, little confidence that the messy ministerial ‘resignations’ will be resolved in a way that burnishes the reputation of the administration. The best option for the president is to stand his ground and let the ministers go, whether they want to or not. Had the president stopped at merely given a May 16 deadline for the ministers to resign, it would have been okay for Messrs Malami et al to retrace their steps and hang on to their plum offices. But by organising a valedictory session for the ministers, it would be untidy for the president to succumb to pressures to let them return. No one is indispensable, and in any case none of the pussyfooting ministers had recorded sterling performance in office. In the best of times, President Buhari has evinced deep vulnerability; in the worst of times, he has been ineffectual. How he handles this little storm in a teacup will ironically – as if seven years were not enough to do that – define the remainder of his controversial presidency.