The term ‘baby mama’ is used for unmarried women with kids for a particular man. In the entertainment industry, here are five celebrities with different baby mamas: Wizkid Afro pop artist, Wizkid’s first baby mom is Shola Ogudu. They met in 2010 and welcomed a baby boy the following year. His second baby mama, Binta Diallo, is a Guinean-American singer and model. Their son, Ayodeji Balogun, was born in 2016. Jada Pollock was Wizkid’s manager before she became his baby mama. Jada Pollock’s son, Zion Balogun was born in 2017. Ubi Franklin Ubi Franklin is a record label owner and a talent manager. Igala Finest is one of his baby mamas. She is a US-based model and entrepreneur originally from Kogi State in Nigeria. Ubi Franklin and Igala Finest share a daughter named Zaneta together. Nicole Siyo is from South Africa. Ubi Franklin and Nicole Siyo share a son named Shiloh together. Ubi Franklin married Lilian 2015 but divorced 2016.   My terrible experience on first day in Lagos, by ex-Don…     Comedian Mr Macaroni celebrates 29th birthday     Ex-BBN’s star Maria celebrates 30 amid age controversy   Lilian Esoro has a son named Jayden. Sandra Iheuwa is a Nigerian-born but US based. She has a daughter named Ariella. 2face The singer, songwriter and record producer’s first baby mama Sumbo Ajaba has two children for him named Zion and Nino. Pero Adeniyi and 2Face have three children together – Ehibenzy Rose Idibia, Innocent and Justin Idibia. Davido The singer has different baby mamas with at least a child from them. Sophia Momodu and Davido had a brief affair in 2015, which resulted to a daughter, Aurora Imade Adeleke. Amanda is an Atlanta-based model, mother of Davido’s second daughter, Hailey Adeleke. Chioma is the mother of Davido’s only son, David Ifeanyi Adeleke born on the 20th of October 2019. Ayotomide met the singer in a nightclub in February 2013 and they had a brief affair which resulted to a daughter, Mitchell Anu Adeleke. Flavour Chinedu Izuchukwu Okoli aka Flavour has Sandra Okagbue as his first baby mama who gave birth to his first daughter in 2014. Anna Banner is the second baby mama of the singer.