The Social Democratic Party (SDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State have disagreed over the alleged assassination attempts on the SDP Deputy Governorship candidate, Ladi Owolabi. The SDP accused the APC of masterminding attacks on Owolabi’s campaign buses and members while returning from the campaign tour. Spokesman of the Segun Oni Campaign Council, Adebayo Jackson, in a telephone chat with our correspondent, alleged that hoodlums suspected to be political thugs waylaid and snatched one of the buses at gunpoint. Jackson accused the APC-led government of using state institution to harass and intimidate SDP members, stressing that this constitutes a threat to the conduct of free, fair and credible election poll. According to him, ‘the resort to brigandage and violence cannot save the APC as the people are firm in their resolute to stand against APC’s evil plot before and during the governorship poll’. He added: “The APC, having perceived its imminent defeat in the coming election, resorted to launching desperate tactics, including attacks on SDP members, to intimidate and harass supporters of Segun Oni.   Deputy Speaker hails APC congress     SWAGA holds symposium for youths     Our achievements will give us victory, says Oyetola   “The ruling party has been chaotic in the face of its rejection by Ekiti people, and has decided to heat up the polity in a desperate attempt to subvert the people’s wish. What is happening now is embarrassing to Ekiti people at home and Diaspora, as well as democracy lovers across the country.” But, the APC said it is unaware of the attack on Owolabi, and described the allegation as ‘monumental falsehood and cheap lies lacking content of validity’. Director of Publicity of the Biodun Oyebanji Campaign Organisation, Taiwo Olatunbosun, said the purported attack was fabricated and deliberately spread to attract undeserving public sympathy. “I am not aware of the attack; we are too busy engaging Ekiti people, having strategic meetings and campaigning to get the electorate to support the continuity of Governor Kayode Fayemi’s people-oriented programmes through Oyebanji. “It is my belief that instead of fabricating lies, they should rather tell people what they have in stock for them. I can assure you that we have a track record of civility in the political process.”