What a man can do, a woman may not necessarily do better, but she can do. It has been said concerning women, that their place is the kitchen. However, the status quo is fast changing in the 21st century. Women’s voices are being heard, but they have not been able to raise their heads and voices high enough. Women are beings of unusual characteristics. Multitasking is one of their  major attributes. Women have been seen to be exceptional when they decide and have the opportunity  to exhibit their strength. In business, in entertainment, Nigerian women  are soaring high. If given the opportunity, Nigerian politics would be much better with their input. Women have ‘something’ to give to the governance of our dear country. They have solutions, ideas that, if  developed, would change the fortunes of the nation. Women  should believe  in themselves that they can contribute to make the nation  better as ministers,  lawmakers, representatives and so on. Women participate in electioneering.They constitute a majority. If they can channel their energy  and passion into supporting each other,  they would  surprise the male politicians. In Rwanda, women have 50 per cent representation and men take the balance. We can also have a system like that in Nigeria. This will lead to an equitable society where  both genders participate actively in governance. The major reason every state presents a representative is to have the yearnings of that specific area and people heard. Having the female gender coming into the circle of decision makers would bring an end to marginalisation as it were. Building great female political actors is not rocket science. It  starts from proper  upbringing of the girl-child. The average girl-child in Nigeria does not dream of becoming a politician. A larger percentage of female students studying political science do not dream of going into politics.This is because they believe, they do not have a chance. This is visible in school politics. In our homes, a girl-child should be able to speak when the boy-child is speaking. A  girl-child who has the courage would become a woman of political power.   NUC accredits four Trinity University’s courses     Don rewards student for excellence     Vocational training vital to students, says don   Education should be given to the girl- child. Women are exceptionally brilliant when they are given education. Education enhances the mind. The mind is regenerated through  knowledge. Culture should not be a hindrance. In Nigeria, we adore our cultural values and this has helped us very much. Still, our cultural values should not be a barrier in the drive for of a better country. Queen Amina fought for her people. Neither should religion also stand against women exercising political powers. In the Bible, Deborah saved her people from destruction. Our religious beliefs should allow women to have their voices and contributions in  politics and governance. Women have proved to do exceptionally well, when given opportunity. The media should also assist in propagating the need for women in politics. I have seen several male candidates receiving the coverage of the media, leaving females with their fate. Political parties and sponsors seemingly do not get interested in supporting female candidates, either to be their representatives at the local, state and federal  levels. They do not see potentials in them. This has greatly made the few interested female candidates to lose interest. How many women can afford the sale of the All Progressive Congress nomination form of N100million? Many cannot, they do not  have the financial muscle to activate their vision alone. Men  are the head but the women are the neck. What’s the essence of being a leader without solutions, ideas and know-how to develop the nation? Men can play their role alongside women. This is a clarion call to our fathers, husbands, sons, uncles, male colleagues  to support women. To help these women have impact on our  country. We need more Queen Aminas of Zaria. We  need more Deborahs of the Bible to raise and help in achieving the Nigeria of our dreams. Women who are capable, not those who would vote, but those who would be voted for. This is not a feminist call, but a call for female political giants to stand up and be counted. Women should be allowed to contribute their own quota too.