No fewer than 100,000 women have been trained in entrepreneurship over the last year by an agricultural company, Babban Gona, in partnership with Mastercard Foundation under the Women Entrepreneurship Development Initiative (WEDI). The women were trained in Ikara, Soba, Igabi, Lere, and Toro areas of Kaduna State. Managing Director of Babban Gona, Kola Masha, noted that the programme was conceived to assist women in addressing significant barriers hindering them from participating in or benefiting from various agricultural programs. “Our WEDI program is designed to tackle some of the key social barriers that hinder women from participating and benefiting equitably from our core agricultural program for smallholder farmers. “Since 2017, we have empowered over 125,000 women through a combination of formal training and credit packages. Our goal is to support over one million women with resources to attain financial independence by 2025. “We are on a fast track to creating catalytic impact and empowering rural African women, putting a halt to the cycle of poverty for many,” Masha said. WEDI programme is focused on training rural women to become financially independent through micro-entrepreneurship. The training helps to provide business and financial literacy skills needed to start and sustainably run and manage a business. One of the beneficiaries of Babban Gona’s WEDI Poultry program, Monica Kura, explained that the training has further helped to enhance productivity in her poultry business.   Amaechi’s consensus candidate plot collapses     Sule declares for second term     APC council seeks credible primary   “I learned about the poultry programme from Babban Gona staff during a sensitisation session. “With eight years of poultry rearing experience, it was a good fit for me and a chance to be fully engaged in poultry activities. “Every week, I was given the food, vaccines, and medications the birds needed. “This year I raised over 1,300 chicks in the BG Poultry Program, eight times more than I had done in the past. “It has been a fantastic experience for me, with several advantages. My family has been able to consume fresh eggs and I have been able to earn money by selling the birds, eggs, and chicken waste as manure. “I used the income to pay for my children’s tuition at a tertiary institution and a secondary school,” Kura said. Another beneficiary, Halima Markus, said the training opportunity was a defining moment for herself and her household. “The business we were into before Babban Gona came was farming. Babban Gona has changed my life and my household and my husband,” Markus said Established in 2017, WEDI has supported approximately 125,000 with training and resources to develop their enterprises. The focus of these enterprises ranges from the retailing of fast-moving consumer goods to poultry farming.