Liverpool forward Mohamed Salah said he will be at Anfield next season “for sure” but would not be drawn over whether he will sign a new contract. Salah’s deal ends in June 2023, leading to speculation he could be sold if he did not sign a new one as he would leave on a free in a year’s time. When asked about his future before Saturday’s Champions League final, he said: “I don’t want to talk about that. “I just want to see Hendo [Jordan Henderson] with the trophy.” The Egypt striker, 29, added: “I don’t focus on the contract at the moment. I don’t want to be selfish. “I am staying next season for sure.” Salah’s team-mate Sadio Mane said he would announce his decision on his own future after the final against Real Madrid in Paris.   Falcons’ Nnadozie wins top French Women’s league award     Zenith Bank tennis grand slam enters crucial stages     Prudent Energy H’ball Premier League: Kano Pillars keep…   The Senegal international, who has scored 120 goals in 268 games for the Reds, will also enter the last 12 months of his contract from June. He told Sky Sports News: “This question [about my future] I will answer after Champions League. If I’m staying or not, I’m going to answer after [the] Champions League.” Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp has dismissed suggestions the outcome of Saturday’s game will be a factor in whether some players decide to extend their contracts or not. “No, not at all,” he said. “What, if we win it they want to go? We are in talks with all the players, it is just not the moment to talk about the results of these talks. None of them are sitting there not knowing what we are planning. “There is just not the time, we play every three days. The players have this idea, we have this idea, sometimes they match immediately, sometimes not and then we work together. “We have known each other for ages.” Salah joined from Roma in 2017 and has scored 156 goals in 253 games for Liverpool. He has helped the club win the Premier League in 2019-20, the 2019 Champions League, the FA Cup and League Cup this season plus the FIFA Club World Cup and UEFA Super Cup during his time at Anfield.