Food prices can only continue to soar if a lasting solution is not found to the question of insecurity, particularly food security, in the country. It takes a peaceful atmosphere for any endeavour to flourish. If farmers continue to be attacked, abducted, maimed, their wives and daughters raped, and maybe eventually killed, the consequence can only be food shortage, with its attendant socio-economic challenges. One of the latest incidents of attacks on farmers by bandits occurred in Faru village in Maradun Local Government Area of Zamfara State on May 14. About seven farmers were killed by the bandits who had issued stern instruction that there should be no farming in the area this year. An indigene of the area, Garba Abdullahi, reportedly said he lost a brother to the brutal attack. “My elder brother, Sani Akwala, was among those who were mercilessly killed by these heartless bandits”, he said adding that the bandits who had been terrorising the village since the beginning of this year’s rainy-season farming “have been going round the farmlands in order to ensure compliance with their directive” that no one should go to the farm this year. In an apparent tone of surrender, he said they were planning to relocate since it appeared the bandits were serious about enforcing their directive. Many other parts of the northern region in particular have experienced this kind of attack. Last year in Kaduna State, eight farmers were attacked on their farmlands and killed in Buruku and Udawa villages of Chikun Local Government Area, forcing many of them to abandon their farms and communities for the urban centres, while others took refuge in internally displaced persons’ (IDP) camps. The resultant joblessness means they would no longer be able to cater to the needs of their families. The implication is a vicious cycle of poverty and more insecurity. Indeed, there have been instances where the bandits operated with impunity and audacity, asking farmers to pay levies before they could farm. To renege meant attacks on the farmers and their communities. For an agrarian economy like ours, disruptions to food production should never be treated with kid gloves. It is not just about soaring prices of items like rice, gari, beans, bread, pepper, onions, cassava, etc, it is also about foreign exchange. Since we cannot do without food, as even those that are fasting must at some point break the fast, we must eat. And if we cannot meet our food needs locally, we must import to bridge the supply gap. This means paying for the imported items with foreign exchange. This is one of the reasons our currency keeps losing value, as we spend so much on food import.   Both must go     N80b alleged fraud     Parties’ financial accounts   Borno State used to be the largest wheat-producing state in the country. As a matter of fact, the state was producing about 30% of Nigeria’s wheat requirement but insurgency has truncated efforts in this regard, with the state now only minimally contributing to the country’s 420,000 tonnes of annual wheat production. Thus, we have had to spend more on wheat import to meet local demand, raising the import bill on the item from $2.4 million in the first quarter of 2020 to $6.2 million in the corresponding quarter of 2021. That is at the national level. Al Jazeera vividly paints the picture of how this downturn affected one wheat farmer in the state: “In 2021, the armed conflict between Boko Haram insurgents and Nigeria’s security forces forced farmer Ismaila Mohammed out of Konduga LGA (Local Government Area) located about 25 km to the southeast of Maiduguri, to an IDP camp in Maiduguri, Borno State. Mohammed, age 47, remembers his thriving wheat farm with nostalgia, recalling thriving harvests that would yield over 250 bags of wheat annually with proceeds that would allow him to maintain a reasonable standard of living and give alms while catering for his family.” That is the way most other farmers have been affected by the insurgency. The Federal Government and the security agencies have to  change tact in the insurgency war. It is a serious indictment of both that the war has lasted this long in spite of efforts and resources committed into it. One crucial area that must be addressed is intelligence gathering. Not much seems to be happening in this regard. Bandits, terrorists and other criminals are deflated when their actions are anticipated and checkmated before they strike. Another area is the need for synergy among the security agencies. The unhealthy rivalry of every agency wanting to have credit for one breakthrough or the other in the battle is unhelpful. They should work as a team. Then, government must be ready to provide the state-of-the art equipment needed by the troops, demonstrate fidelity to the cause by naming, shaming and prosecuting the sponsors of insurgency, as well as motivate the officers and men for greater efficiency. Food security is a crucial component of national security. Therefore, it should not be under any kind of threat, not in the least that of bandits. As the saying goes, a hungry man is an angry man. A country with a preponderance of angry men is sitting on a keg of gunpowder.