The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved over N2 billion for the procurement of operational vehicles by the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, disclosed this to State House Correspondents after at the weekly virtual FEC meeting chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari. Aregbesola briefed journalists with Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed and the Minister of State for Power, Jeddy Agba. According to Aregbesola, the vehicles to be procured include 27 Buffalo double cabin vans, 15 Toyota Hilux vans and 10 ambulance buses. “The Federal Executive Council today approved for the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), also known as Civil Defence, the sum of N2, 024, 935, 000 only for the purchase of 52 operational vehicles broken down in this order, 27 Buffalo double cabin MT 2021 model, 15 Toyota Hilux 4 wheel drive, premium package 2020 model and 10 Toyota Hiace ambulance buses, with full option, totalling 52 vehicles in all,” he said. He said the vehicles would be bought to enhance the capacity of the NSCDC to combat crimes as well as the protection of lives and property across Nigeria.   UPDATED: Appeal Court sets aside judgment voiding Section…     ASUP commences strike Monday     BREAKING: Tinubu submits presidential nomination form   Asked about the openness of the contract bids to local contractors, he said: “It was an open bidding exercise and I think I saw some of our local manufacturers bid, they bid and the best and most responsive bids won the contract. “So, there is no issue about whether we discriminated against local manufacturers or preference for foreign manufacturers. That is my response to that it was an open bidding”, he said. Agba said Council approved three contracts for his ministry, which will help boost electricity supply in some parts of the country. “You will agree with me that of late we’ve had grid collapses, resulting in epileptic power supply in most parts of the country. There’s definitely been the need for us to reinvigorate our national grid so as to sustain and provide electricity to majority members of our country and the communities around us. “To that effect, FEC today approved three major contracts aimed at enhancing the performance of the national grid with the view to improving power supply. One of the lines is the one linking Benin, Oshogbo and Akure in Edo, Osun and Ondo States. “So in the three states, the grid in that area has been weak for sometime but with this approval of today’s contract, we are swinging into action and certainly, very shortly, we would have improvements on the grid in that area. “Also the 133 KVA in Akwanga and Lafia in Nasarawa State, has also been improved that also helps to strengthen the line to Abuja through those two states and the states further, Plateau and Benue States would have improved electrical supply, following those strengthening. “So if we empower our grid properly, and given the encouragement the president and FEC has given us, we promised Nigerians that the grid will be enhanced, and electricity supply to the country improved, howbeit, gradually. But we were working on that. And with these approvals, we hope to do better for Nigerians,” he said.