THE Federal Government has ordered the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) to enforce compulsory insurance for government agencies. To also shore up its revenue, the Federal Government has directed the Nigeria Export-Import Bank NEXIM and the NAICOM to develop strategies that will increase revenue for the government. Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning Mrs Zainab Ahmed gave these orders at two separate events in Abuja on Friday. While commissioning the NAICOM portal, the finance minister told officials of the Commission to cooperate “with other agencies of government to enforce compulsory insurances in the country.” Stakeholders in the industry, she said, “must consciously and intentionally spread the reach of insurance from the major cities and few states to other regions of the country, especially the rural areas.” In addition, she urged NAICOM to ensure that “low penetration in the retail end of the market must also be addressed through vigorous drive of inclusive Insurance like micro insurance and takaful.” The finance minister while lamenting the low insurance penetration of 0.88 percent contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) challenged NAICOM to take advantage of the opportunities for growth in the insurance market. According to Zainab Ahmed, “there is a need therefore, to develop new innovative products based on data and customer preferences and introduction of new channels of distribution beyond the traditional channels to reach new segments of the market”.   Fed govt set to kick start 2022 National MSMEs awards     Ekiti guber race: Withdraw if you can’t withstand real…     My transition from technocrat to politician, by Edevbie   The finance minister called on NAICOM to “look into ways of increasing its revenue through the use of technology and the Portal in particular.” She then urged the Commission “to ensure the Portal is connected to other government databases like the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) NIN Database, Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) Passport Database, Nigeria Integrated Customs Information system, FRSC’s National Vehicle Identification System, the National Vehicle Registry, State Licensing Databases among others in order to provide value-added services to all Insurance Industry stakeholders and enhance revenue generation.” Earlier, at the inauguration of the boards of NAICOM and NEXIM, the finance minister gave the management of NEXIM five years, within which the government wants “to see a quantum leap in the contribution of the non-oil sector to export revenue to at least 30 percent”. She told the NEXIM management that “this, I believe, is possible and the government will be willing and ready to give you the desired support to achieve this target.” According to her, “the threat of a mono-product economy is real, and the recent episode of the COVID-19 pandemic has further underscored the need for Nigeria to widen its export basket and deepen its export market.” To the NAICOM board, Zainab Ahmed drew its attention to President Muhammadu Buhari’s “interest in re-positioning the Insurance Industry by making it attractive to investors and the insuring public.” In his address, the Commissioner for Insurance Mr. Oluwadare Sunday Thomas told the minister that “the portal provides a platform for interconnectivity by all industry stakeholders to support real-time aggregation of data on policies at the time of underwriting and policy issuance”. “Each policy will be issued with a unique policy ID that will be associated with the policy for the lifetime of the policy”. Thomas added that “with the completion of the portal there will be process efficiency and faster processing time as applications and supporting documents are submitted online, applicant’s account is updated with the status of the application as it progresses and there is effective Real-time communication between NAICOM and the applicant.”