Popular comedienne Helen Paul on Monday announced she has officially become a professor. She becomes Nigeria’s first stand-up comedienne to be a professor.   Professor Helen Paul is a comedian, singer and actress. She is also a stand-up comedian, known as Tatafo, characterised by a voice range that makes her sound like a child. She graduated with a doctorate in Theater Arts from the University of Lagos. Helen is the Head of the Department of Arts, Music and Entertainment at Heart International University, United States. Afeez Oyetoro popularly known as Saka was born on August 20, 1963, in Iseyin Local Government Area of Oyo State southwestern Nigeria.   Naira Marley releases debut album “God’s…     Train attack: Osinbajo’s classmate, Ango Abdulahi’s son…     Stop shaving your public hairs, Blessing CEO advises ladies   Afeez obtained a Bachelor and Master of Art degree in Theatre art from Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) and the University of Ibadan (UI) respectively. He is on a doctorate degree at the Institute of African Studies, University of Ibadan, Ibadan. Femi Adebayo is a lawyer, film actor, director, producer and Special Adviser to the Governor of Kwara State on Arts, Culture and Tourism. He is the son of the veteran actor, Adebayo Salami. He was born in Lagos but originates from Ilorin, Kwara State. He attended the C&S College for his secondary school education then to University of Ilorin where he obtained a bachelor’s degree in Law and earned a Master’s degree in Law at the University of Ibadan. Florence Ifeoluwa Otedola, also known as DJ Cuppy, is a music producer, DJ and the daughter of billionaire Femi Otedola. Cuppy went to London for her GCSE’s and A-Levels. Cuppy graduated from King’s College London in July 2014 with a degree in Business and Economics. She bagged a Masters Degree in Music Business from New York University. Naetochukwu Chikwe, stage name Naeto C, is a Nigerian rapper, Afrobeat artist and record producer. He was born in Houston, Texas and is of Nigerian origin. In 2010 Naeto pursued a MSc in Energy Studies at the University of Dundee in Scotland.