The Police in India have arrested six Nigerians in connection with a murder case in the country’s largest city, Mumbai. The men were arrested on May 6 in the Ri-Bhoi district of Lad Umsaw, in the northeastern state of Meghalaya. Two others were apprehended for alleged drug dealing in another Indian state. According to Meghalaya Police, the six are wanted in connection with a case registered with Waliv Police Station under sections 302/364/201/323/143/147/149 of the Indian Penal Code. It was alleged that the men were attempting to flee to Bangladesh, via Dawki in the West Jaintia Hills district, following a manhunt for them in India. The Meghalaya Police stated this in a post on its Twitter feed. “Yet another successful Inter-State Police coordination! After being alerted by @MumbaiPolice about the movement of some Nigerian Nationals wanted for a murder case in Mumbai, an operation was launched & 6 Nigerian Nationals were apprehended at Lad Umsaw, Ri-Bhoi. “It is learnt that the following Nigerian Nationals after committing the offence in Mumbai were intending to flee India to Bangladesh through Dawki India,” it tweeted.   Children orphaned by insurgency are mine – Sultan     Adhere to approved speed limit, NYSC cautions drivers      Orji Kalu denies plan to dump APC   The suspects were identified as Eze Christopher Oba, Ahukanna Chinonso, Obi Francis Osita, Okoro Kelvin Chidozie, Emmanuel Agbeyi and Osagiede Godstime. The Nation learnt that two more Nigerians were also arrested in India in connection with drug dealing. The duo –Ifeanyi Charles Okuakaj and Emmanuel Enuma Dike – were nabbed in the city of Guwahati, Assam State. Their arrest followed an investigation by the Guwahati Police into an international drug trafficking racket which unearthed clues about drug shipment routes to Assam from neighbouring Indian states and countries. Okuakaj and Dike were said to have been apprehended at the Guwahati Railway Station while travelling by the Dibrugarh-bound Rajdhani Express. According to Guwahati Police, they were found with 20 grammes of cocaine, Aadhar cards and PAN cards registered to an address in Delhi. It was claimed that they entered India from Bangladesh through the Dawki border in Meghalaya. They came to Guwahati and then Delhi, before returning to Guwahati with a plan to return to Bangladesh. The police claimed that the duo’s arrest proved the presence of a ‘cartel smuggling cocaine to Guwahati and other states of the Northeast from Guwahati’.