The Chief Whip of the Senate , Sen. Orji Uzor Kalu says nine presidential aspirants from the All Progressives Congress (APC) are set to step down to support the presidential ambition of the Senate President, Dr Ahmad Lawan. Kalu told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Saturday in Abuja that an influential presidential aspirant from the opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is also planing to join the APC. Kalu, though did not list their names, was the first to drop his presidential ambition in support of Lawan on the grounds of failure of APC to zone the presidential ticket to the South East. He declared his support for Lawan who hails from the North East. According to Kalu, “Lawan’s candidature will rock like hurricane. “The issue of the APC presidential candidate will be settled even before the primaries. “As I am talking to you, about nine presidential aspirants from our party have intimated me of their plans to drop their presidential ambition to support Ahmad Lawan. “Does that not signify victory before the election? Lawan’s candidature will rock like hurricane. “Lawan is from the North East and has similar sympathy with the South East that is yet to produce president.   2023: Jimoh Ibrahim dissociates self from fake Twitter,…     Imo CIS retires, advices officers against misconduct     2023: I won’t take loan as President, says Jack-Rich   “I have repeated my reasons for dropping my ambition for Lawan severally and I am sure Nigerians are aware already. “We are also expecting an influential presidential aspirant from the opposition to join the APC. “So, you can see the party is very progressive and properly ready for Lawan’s emergence,“ the former governor of Abia said. On the call for postponement of primary elections by some political parties, Kalu said he does not expect the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to listen to them. He said the parties were duly informed and should have prepared well as mandated by the electoral body. “Extension of the dates will only support irresponsibility. Nigerians find it difficult to keep to time and appointments and that is why they would always seek for extra time. “I support INEC to stick to their timetable otherwise we will be living with postponement after postponement. Such a trend is not healthy for a society and its people. “We complains of indiscipline but not ready to be practical about the requirements of discipline. “INEC should discipline any party that fails to meet up, because that is the only way they can take their jobs seriously,” Kalu said. (NAN)