Going by the monthly reports on intercepted smuggled rice and other assorted contraband items by men of the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS), Nigerians must increasingly wonder whether the unprecedented measure of border closure ordered by the Federal Government nearly three years back actually achieved much in terms of curbing the menace advertised as one of its main goals. Only last week, the Area Controller in charge of Federal Operations Unit, Zone A, of the NCS, Hussein Ejebunu, informed Nigerians that the unit intercepted 7,259 bags of 50kg rice – an equivalent of some 12 trucks load of the commodity – in April. In all, some 12 suspects were reportedly arrested in connection with some of the seizures, and for committing various customs offences. Alerting Nigerians to the negative economic impact of importing foreign rice into the country, the customs top gun also warned on the unwholesomeness of a good chunk of the smuggled rice – as according to him, a laboratory test analysis on some of the previously seized foreign parboiled rice by the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), “indicated some contents of lead, a soft heavy toxic malleable metallic element in the tested rice, making it unfit for human consumption.” Earlier in the preceding month – that is, March, the unit reported the seizure of smuggled items with duty value of N767,633,458.50 and the arrest of 23 persons. In February, it reported the seizure of 6,749 bags of smuggled parboiled rice at 50kg – equivalent to 11 trailers load; 36,575 litres of premium motor spirit; 599 bales of second-hand clothing; 906 cartons of frozen poultry products; 2,001 pieces of used tyres; 175 pieces of used compressors and 180 cartons of foreign soap.   Not good enough     Gavi to the rescue     Result of diligence   And these are seizures covering only one zone – the southwest area – alone. It certainly helps that NCS routinely avails Nigerians with regular updates on its activities. Yet, much as that regular information affords Nigerians a general sense of what is going on, the real issue is whether the reports – particularly of the seizures – reflect the effectiveness of the NCS as a body. This obviously bears highlighting in an environment where the so-called foreign parboiled rice, not only contends for space with the locally produced rice in our vast sprawling domestic markets despite the so-called import curbs and restrictions, but has remained the dominant partner with the men of the customs left with occasional mock shows to prove relevance. In this, Nigerians would require no hard lessons to appreciate why smuggling thrives – and it does not matter whether the item in question is the basic staple, rice, or some fancy luxury items that the Nigerian loves to show off with. It is precisely because the demand exists in the domestic market for which it currently lacks the capacity to produce either in sufficient numbers or in any competitive quality/price bases. This is what unscrupulous Nigerians have continued to take advantage of. In the specific case of rice, the country, it must be stated, is still far from producing enough of the staple and certainly not in price/quality competitive terms; and this is in spite of the heroic efforts mounted by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Federal Government – efforts unfortunately undermined by the pervasive insecurity across the country, the limited processing capacity and the combination of other factors that continue to render the country’s operating environment such a nightmare to entrepreneurs. The situation is what has made the customs job such an impossible one. By focusing on and mitigating those identified factors underlying the huge gap – none of which is within the capacity of the 15,000 strong personnel NCS to solve – the Federal Government would certainly be on course to a better, more sustainable and potentially winning strategy to curb the menace.