The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) may raise the nation’s benchmark interest rate as inflation rate heads to a seven-month high. The apex bank is projected to abandon its dovish stance and start a tightening cycle by raising the baseline interest rate in response to spiraling inflationary trend, which is expected to hit a seven-month high at the next announcement. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) is scheduled to release the April 2022 inflation rate ahead of the meeting of the CBN’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) on May 23 and 24, 2022. Economic and finance experts at the weekend said the spiraling inflationary trend would continue, and the third consecutive increase expected for April would be a game-changer for the apex bank. They attributed recent dynamics in the nation’s financial markets as anticipatory moves against the headwinds. CBN’s Monetary Policy Rate is currently at 11.50 per cent but experts have predicted at least 50 basis points increase to at least 12.0 per cent. In a report at the weekend, Financial Derivatives Company (FDC)- a high-level think-tank led by Bismarck Rewane, a member of President  Muhammadu Buhari’s Economic Advisory Council, stated that its independent survey indicated that inflation rate may rise to 16.2 per cent for April 2022, 0.28 per cent ahead of 15.92 per cent announced for March 2022. FDC’s projection was based on time series analysis and survey of major markets in the Lagos Metropolis, a method it had used earlier to correctly predict inflationary trend. According to FDC, all inflation sub-indices except for month-on-month inflation are expected to increase with headline inflation. “The MPC is widely expected to raise interest rates at its meetings on the 23rd and 24th of May. This is likely to be the commencement of a tightening cycle and could see the CBN use open market operations mainly for liquidity management purposes as against the unorthodox approach adopted in the last few years. The committee’s decision to tighten would also come after several nations both in advanced and emerging economies have accepted a much more aggressive tightening stance,” Rewane’s FDC stated. According to analysts, the implications of higher interest rates on cost of borrowing, return on savings and stock market valuations are already causing some jitters in money and capital markets. Afrinvest, a major finance and investment group, also at the weekend said the proposed increase in tariffs by telecommunication operators would have a spiral inflationary effect on the general economy if implemented, given the strategic nature of telco services to business and households existence.   Nigeria aims at full digital capital market     ‘Linking SIMs with NIN will curb cybercrime’     A case for consumer-friendly vegetable oil   The Association of Licensed Telecommunication Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) had last week announced a proposed 40 per cent increase in service tariffs, citing sustained increase in telecommunication companies’ operating expenses, especially energy costs. Based on the proposal, tariffs for calls and SMS are estimated to rise 39.8 per cent and 40.3 per cent to N8.95 and N5.61 respectively. Afrinvest stated that while the underlying business rationale may be compelling enough given that the average retail price of Diesel had surged by more than 129 per cent, Nigerians should brace up for higher inflationary trend amid declining purchasing power. Analysts at Cordros Group underlined that global monetary authorities are expected to further increase interest rates, which may have a colouration and softening effect on other economies. The United States (US)’s Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) had increased the target range for federal funds rate by 50 basis points to between 0.75 per cent and one per cent as against previous range of 0.25 per cent and 0.50 per cent. Analysts noted that given the underlying tone and the Russia-Ukraine conflict’s near-term impact on inflation, FOMC may further increase its policy rate by 50 basis points at its next meeting in June 2022. In United Kingdom, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Bank of England (BoE) had also increased its main policy rate by 25 basis points to 1.00 per cent, the fourth consecutive increase since BoE adopted a hawkish stance last December. FDC stated that Nigeria’s inflationary trend may be worse than estimated noting that whilst official headline inflation was reported at 15.92 per cent for March 2022, the actual reality of things painted a much higher number. According to analysts, global inflation is at record levels with a four-decade level in U.S. and three-decade high in United Kingdom and European Union (EU), and the spiraling upward trend may continue in Nigeria and other Sub-Saharan African countries. FDC indicated that its projection on increase in Nigeria’s benchmark interest rate was a consensus estimate of most analysts. “Our time series model points to a possible decline in month-on-month inflation to 1.22 per cent, 15.67 per cent annualised, in April from 1.74 per cent, 23.15 per cent annualised, in March. This largely reflects weak aggregate demand as consumer disposable income remained squeezed. “Four of the country’s land borders have been reopened. While this move has been misconstrued by some as a political agenda, analysts are more focused on the expected economic impact particularly on food inflation. Based on our analysis, the annual composite food index is projected to increase again to 17.35 per cent in April from 17.2 per cent in March. In subsequent months, we expect the reopening of the land borders to boost food supply and taper commodity prices. The unintended consequences would be a possible rise in smuggling activities,” FDC stated. FDC noted that most African countries are grappling with the twin shock of rising inflation and high debt levels and according to the Standard Bank Group, five of Africa’s heavily-indebted countries-Ghana, Kenya, Angola, Ethiopia and Zambia, are at the verge of a debt distress. FDC pointed out that SSA countries’ debt crisis could become worse as most advanced economies adopt a tighter monetary policy stance, pushing up debt service costs.