Napoli striker Victor Osimhen has reportedly outlined the criteria for his next club as rumours of a summer move to the Premier League continue to circulate. Osimhen, 23, has registered 17 goals and six assists in all competitions this season, playing a vital role in Napoli’s push for the Serie A title. Luciano Spalletti’s side will, at the very least, qualify for the Champions League, and it is for this reason that Osimhen would only move to a club that will also be competing in Europe’s top competition next season. That’s according to the Mirror, who claimed the player’s representatives have been permitted by Napoli to send out feelers to Premier League clubs. It was reported earlier this week that Manchester United had submitted an ‘undeniable’ bid of over €100m for Osimhen but the demand for Champions League football would leave their hopes of signing the Nigeria international in tatters.   Super Eagles: Ohuabunwa berates NFF over Qatar 2022 failure     Arsenal return to top four after win against Westham     Leao’s late strike against Fiorentina keeps AC Milan…   United are five points adrift of fourth-place Arsenal with three games to play, but the Gunners, who have also made Osimhen a target, are far from secure in their Champions League spot and still have to travel to fifth-place Spurs to play out the rearranged North London Derby. Liverpool are another club eyeing Osimhen, but doubts persist over their willingness to get involved in a bidding war that is likely to exceed €100m, given the blistering form of their current attackers. Osimhen suffered a serious facial injury in November but has scored seven goals in 10 appearances since his return. He told BBC Sport Africa: “From the moment I had my surgery, I read some people saying ‘The season is over for him. When he comes back, he wouldn’t go head-to-head with a defender’. ‘Even with a mask, he cannot nod the ball’ and stuff like that. Most of all those doubts are actually a motivation for me. Because I know myself and I know the kind of heart that I’ve got. To be able to be back and keep the goals coming is a big thing for me. “I appreciate people that have worked so hard with me to make sure I’m okay even when I had the surgery and everything. They probably doubted me returning to my best because of the impact the facial incident could’ve had on my mental health.”