The Police have frowned against the involvement of some ladies in bestiality. The warning came amid concerns over viral videos of some ladies having intercourse with dogs. The act of humans engaging in intercourse with animals is referred to as bestiality while the attraction to animals is called zoophilia. Checks by The Nation show the Criminal Code Act and the Penal Code Act criminalise sleeping with an animal. Sleeping with an animal attracts 14 years imprisonment in Nigeria. “The punishment is 14 years imprisonment upon conviction based on Section 214 of the Criminal Code Act; Section 284 of the Penal Code Act. Section 214 of Criminal Code Act states that “Any person who- (1) has carnal knowledge of any person against the order of nature; or (2) has carnal knowledge of an animal; or (3) permits a male person to have carnal knowledge of him or her against the order of nature; is guilty of a felony, and is liable to imprisonment for fourteen years.”   BBNaija: Met Police issues final warning to Khafi     Presidential primaries (1) APC, Tinubu and others     VAT: Appeal Court fixes hearing in FIRS, Rivers suit for May…   Section 284 of the Penal Code Act states that “Whoever has carnal intercourse against the order of nature with any man, woman or animal shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to fourteen years and shall also be liable to fine.” Reacting, Force spokesman, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi who also cited the Criminal code Act 1990, noted that it’s an offence for anyone to have carnal knowledge of an animal. His tweet reads: “Can you see this? Read it, so that we tell them oh because they all accept the dirty business. The law condemns it, our tradition condemns it, all the practicable religions condemn it so what are we saying. “Part of our duties as a responsible institution is to educate our people, Nigerians, on the dos and don’ts as stipulated by our laws. That is why I have uploaded this portion of the law here.” He warned those in the line of business to stop to avoid spreading strange sicknesses in Nigeria. “However, we need to tell them to stop that nonsense so that they don’t spread strange sicknesses in the country. The ones they had introduced to our system are enough oh,” he adde. The Nation learnt Police have launched a manhunt for a lady in a viral TikTok video claiming to have had intercourse with dogs. Adejobi, said posting bestial-natured videos online won’t be tolerated.