Anthony Odey Ochicha is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Cross River State. He was the governorship candidate of the party in 2015, but lost to Governor Ben Ayade, who contested on the platform of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP). In this interview, he speaks about the challenges confronting the ruling party ahead of next year’s general election What is your assessment of the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, seven years down the line? I would not say the administration has earned the trust and confidence of Nigerians. However, I can say that they have been a few highs; this is in the area of infrastructure. President Muhammadu Buhari has recorded significant milestones in road infrastructure. One of such milestones is the soon to be completed second Niger Bridge. The project PDP began during the administration and, so far, we have been able to take it to a near completion level. No doubt, by October this year, it is likely to be commissioned. Apart from the Second Niger Bridge, the APC has done remarkably well on road infrastructure. Basically, there are some areas our party has done well, and there are also areas it has not done well. The APC was elected on a three-prong cardinal agenda that includes rebuilding the economy, fighting corruption and tackling insecurity. While I could say the government has done the best it could, it is yet to meet the expectations of Nigerians in the three areas it promised to effect change. The economy, as you are aware, is not in a good shape yet. The security of the country is still facing a big challenge arising from the Boko Haram insurgency, armed banditry, killer herdsmen, and kidnappings. The government has done its best to contain them but it is still a work in progress. Corruption is still a big challenge. However, the government is doing its best to curb it. I will like Nigerians to know that a country that is corruption-ridden cannot develop. So, seven years after, I will say that it is not yet Uhuru. The administration has been accused of failing to manage the country’s diversity. Do you agree with this? I agree with you completely. A renowned leadership guru, John C. Maxwell says that “Without involvement, there can be no commitment”. One sore point that I have observed for seven years now is the lack of inclusiveness. One of the mistakes typical of the administration is the exclusion of some regions from governance. For me, there should be total inclusion, not exclusion. Good governance is about inclusion; carrying everybody along. For instance, the Southeast appears to have been marginalized in appointments and, as a result, the region is aggrieved. The resultant or cumulative effect of this is the separatist movement we are witnessing today. If they have been carried along, I do not think there would even be a separatist movement. So, in that area, I do not think we have done well as a party. This should be a wake-up call for leadership in future that they should carry everybody along, and involve everybody in order to achieve the three Ps of leadership which is peace, progress and prosperity. You can call it the three Ps of leadership because without peace there can be no progress, and without progress, there can be no prosperity. The APC is charging a whopping N100 million for its nomination form and this many insist does not allow for equal participation. What is your position on this? For me it is outrageous. That is the truth; it is outrageous. It is too much. We are a progressive party, and so, our nomination fee ought to be lower than that of the PDP. So, for me, there is no justification at all. I’m a progressive democrat. I’m not just a democrat, but a progressive democrat. I do not subscribe to the huge nomination fee. It is outrageous, and it should have not been so. It is not encouraging at all. And we are a party promoting the ‘”not too young to run” which is about carrying the youths along. So, where do you expect the youths to cough out N50 million if they are to run for the governorship? For me, it is not fair. As a progressive party, we should also be progressive-minded. What is your take on a consensus arrangement as an option for producing your party’s presidential candidate for the 2023 election? You know as a technocrat, as a bureaucrat who has held so many top positions during my time with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), there are two ways by which decisions are taken at every meeting; either by consensus or through the majority vote. Consensus means everybody agrees, but where everybody does not agree, put it to vote. So, that is one of the ways by which decisions are taken. You use consensus if everybody agrees. Whereby everybody does not agree, then you put it to vote, direct or indirect primary. It is the constitutional right of anybody to want to run, to aspire as a Nigerian. But they need to apply the formula we adopted in Cross River State in the run-up to the 2015 governorship primary, which produced me as the APC governorship candidate. For me, it is the best formula I recommend for the leadership selection process in Nigeria. What is this formula? It is the formula of wisdom, maturity and understanding. But I am not seeing that.   ‘Oyetola has performed excellently’     Abiodun, APC primary and shape of things to come     PDP primary: A three horse-race?   Former Lagos State governor and National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and his political godson, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo appear to be on a collision course for the presidential ticket of the APC. What does this portend for the party? I loved what I saw on social media this morning. The former governor of Lagos State and former Chief of Staff to Asiwaju himself, Babatunde Raji Fashola said he cannot run against somebody that made him. We have mentors or benefactors, and I do not expect mentors and mentees or beneficiaries to be fighting each other. No, this is where wisdom is not being applied; maturity is not being applied, and understanding is not being applied. And when these three factors are missing, there will be confusion. For me, they need to understand each other; they should work for a common purpose, and not at cross purposes. A father and son should not be fighting each other over positions. A son fighting the father is not good. If, for instance, the father has any interest, for me, the son should show understanding and support his father, unless the father is not interested. In 2015, when there was so much scepticism about the APC in Cross River State, you threw your hat into the ring by flying the party’s governorship flag which you eventually lost. What has been your lot since then? It is sad indeed to say I was abandoned and forsaken. There is no reward system in our party. Those who just jumped into the party from nowhere, who didn’t sacrifice as I sacrificed, were offered juicy appointments. I made a huge sacrifice for our party. The party leadership, for me, was responsible for the neglect. I hold the party and the president responsible. Not the people that came and grabbed these positions. I do not blame those who came and grabbed it. It is our party and the president, our leader who allowed it. So, I hold President Buhari and our party responsible for the treatment I received. The party has been unjust and unfair to me. I left my lucrative and juicy job at the NNPC five years to retirement to come and run for the governorship. By God’s grace, I won the primary landslide, and took the party to all the 196 wards, to all the palaces, and to all interest groups. I lost to Governor Ben Ayade, only for me to be treated in such an unfair manner; it should never have happened that way. I have been told several times that sort of thing does not happen in the PDP.  The APC ought to have recognized the enormous sacrifice I made, and ought to have done for me what was done for my counterparts in Rivers State. Dakuku Peterside was rewarded with a job as the director-general of NIMASA, Umana Umana of Akwa Ibom State was also rewarded with a job as managing director of a federal parastatal. He is still the MD of that parastatal today. So, why should my case be different? Is it because I am from Cross River or what? It is the party and the leadership that I hold responsible for what happened; I still cannot blame those who came in and took what should have come to me. What is your next move ahead of next year’s general election? Though I have not declared, I intend to run for the Senate. We had a meeting with our state chairman in Calabar, with a view to coming up with a consensus candidate. So, that is what I have in mind if I am given the opportunity to serve as a senator. In line with our zoning arrangement, it will not be fair for anybody to aspire from Cross River North senatorial district where I come from to run for the governorship next year. You were accused of compromising your position, given the manner in which you quickly congratulated your PDP opponent, following the declaration of the result of the 2015 governorship election. What is your comment on this? They said that out of sheer ignorance. The truth, my brother is that they do not know who Odey Ochicha is. Everybody has his own style of politics. Politics is not aggression; it is not confrontation. They should try and do an assessment of some of the chieftains of the party at both national and the state levels with aggressive tendencies and how they ended. So, politics is about persuasion, just like leadership. Leadership, according to John C. Maxwell, is simply influencing. I am a professional leadership expert. I know what leadership entails; it is about persuasion; it is all about networking; it is about influence, and it is about convincing you in a superior argument. It is about lobbying, and it is not fighting. We call that “politricks”, not politics.  Unknown to those critics, I studied political science as a first degree and I have a master’s in Labour Science. So, I know how politics is played. It is not about instigating a crisis. Of course, that was the method people wanted me to adopt. They should ask themselves where is Donald Trump today? He was confrontational, aggressive, and talking down on people but where is he now? He could not win a second time. So again, leadership is all about lobbying, and I’ve been doing that. Lobbying is a veritable tool in democracy. You lobby, you network, and you apply what I call the three Cs. What are the three Cs? It is all about communication, consultation, and connection with the powers that be; the leadership of the party to get what you want. And I have been doing that. Do they think politics is only coming out to fight? No! That is not politics at all. You network; you persuade, and you lobby to get what you want. That is what I call refined politics, and Ochicha plays refined politics, not crooked politics that has taken Nigeria nowhere. Indeed, it has always resulted in violence and deaths. Do you think leadership is about violence and killing people? No. It is to lead and to serve. They do not know that I am a lover of the cooperative society. And I like the motto of the cooperative society so much, which is “improving the welfare of the people”. That is what leadership should be about: To improve the welfare of the people you lead and create a better society to make people happy.