NIGERIAN Ports Authority (NPA) may need over N100 billion to fix the failed section of the quay apron of Apapa and Tin-Can Island ports in Lagos and other ports, The Nation has learnt. The agency has mandated the terminal operators to fix the quay walls in their facility or the agency will look for alternative to get the job done. Speaking at the weekend, a senior official of Federal Ministry of Transportation (FMoT) said NPA needs approval of Federal Executive Council (FEC) to award the contract because of the huge amount of money. It was learnt some terminals are requiring repairs are ENL Consortium (Terminals C and D) at Apapa; Josepdam Port Service (Terminals 1, 1a and 2);  Port and Cargo (Terminal 6, 7, 7a, 8); and Five Star Logistics (Terminals 9 and 10) on Tin-Can Island; and AMS Terminal in Delta State. The official said with the high exchange rate, NPA would spend a fortune the rehabilitation to meet international standard. “If the terminal operators fail to show interest, NPA will award the contract to a reliable company… and that may cost between N80 billion to N100 billion if there is no addition like survey and dredging to form a stable platform. “We are envisaging the quay walls that will  be equipped with less than 10 ship-to-shore quay cranes and 15 mounted gantry cranes to handle some  the  largest container vessels at the international market. NPA’s former General Manager of Public Affairs Kayode Ajayi said there are five types of quay walls (block, caisson, counterfort, cantilever and sheet pile available. He said: “The first four can be built ‘in the dry’ by conventional methods. Block, caisson and counterfort walls in marine construction require dredging to form a stable platform and the formation of a stone bed to place the respective units.   B737-800 leads converted freighter fleet growth     African Energy Bank to fund major projects     Digitalisation of African airports key to economic recovery,…   ” The dredging would be carried out by grabbing, cutter-suction or trailer suction, and it is performed by a specialist subcontractor…’’ The dredging survey must be controlled using differential GPS to tight tolerances. The platform or excavation in the sea bed would then be surveyed by multi-beam sonar to produce a set of plans and cross-sections to compare with the requirements of the construction drawings. The multi-beam survey, which is also controlled by differential GPS, should produce accuracies of ±20 mm in height and ±100 mm laterally. This is far more accurate than the older methods of depth soundings or echo soundings, and it should produce more economical construction, as the dredging can be carried out to tighter tolerances than in the past. “Similarly, modern surveying methods should help to produce more economical construction of the stone bed, as there should be less material wastage. The stone bed is usually made of 75-mm single-sized crushed stone, which would be handled by a grab crane on a barge and supplied by stone supply barges. The stone bed may initially, if the depth of stone so dictates, be carried out by rough dumping of stone from hopper barges or by grabbing off a stone barge. However, both methods require dumping to a calculated, coordinated pattern. Ajayi goes further to explain that “a block wall is normally constructed of precast concrete blocks laid from a crane barge, supplied by a block transport barge. The size or weight of the blocks is usually dictated by the size of equipment available, but clearly the largest size or weight of block is the most efficient. Concrete blocks are cast at a land-based precast yard, and blocks of 40 ton are usually the largest that can be handled by normal land-based plant and transport. Blocks that are much heavier can be handled by purpose-designed equipment. ” The crane barge for block-laying is securely anchored over the position of the block wall, and the blocks are laid to surveyed lines and levels. Where the block wall retains fill for hardstanding areas, the joints between the blocks are sealed, usually with grout socks in preformed recesses. The voids in hollow block walls are filled typically with sand or rubble,” Ajayi said. But when you look at all these,  Ajayi said, “you will realize that the terminal operators would be expected to spend a lot of money on the essential facility and another thing they would be considering is the time it would take the contractors to fix the port before they can invest their money. But with the assurance received from the World Bank, I don’t think NPA would have any problem in fixing the quay walls by itself and give it to terminal operators that are willing to pay them,” the former image maker said. An importer, Mr Felix Ayobola said the infrastructure at most of the terminals need to be upgraded and urged the NPA as the landlord, to take urgent action that will prevent the port from collapsing. “Anybody transacting business at the Lagos ports knows that the facilities at most of the terminals need to be upgraded to meet international standard and that is why the NPA needs the support of the government to fix the port before the Lekki Deep Seaport will come alive before the end of this year,” Atobola said.