Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, has told the people of the Kebbi State that they won’t regret entrusting their mandate to him. Malami made the statement at the stakeholders meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Birnin Kebbi yesterday. He also restated his resolve to contest the gubernatorial position in the state come 2023. He said the interaction with party members and stakeholders was in furtherance of his wider consultative meeting which has already started. “The people of the state will not in any way regret entrusting their mandate to me, Malami, come 2023.” The Minister promised to be fair, just, pious and equitable, if elected to succeed Bagudu. Malami further vowed to sustain the tangible achievements of Bagudu, if given the mandate. This, he said would be done to build on Bagudu’s exemplary and performing leadership from 2015 to date. Malami further extolled the support of the leaders of the APC at all levels, saying the party is united.   Middle Belt Youths urge Adamu to consult Buhari before…     FG seeks to revive 160 moribund textile companies     Gombe NSCDC deploys 614 men for Sallah celebration   According to him, the APC administration in the state and at the central level has focused attention on providing the welfare needs of the people. He cited the distribution of 40,000 tonnes of assorted food items to indigent Nigerians, which he extended to the Kebbi State government during the Ramadan. He delightedly announced to the gathering his gesture to offer financial assistance to them in order to enable them celebrate the Sallah with ease with their families. Speaking, Governor Atiku Bagudu represented by the SSG, Alhaji Babale Umar Yauri commended the stakeholders’ for their sustained support to the party and his administration. While acknowledging the tempo of cooperation, Bagudu pledged to do more to take Kebbi State to greater heights. “From 2015 to date, Malami has attracted many intervention projects to the state and he has facilitated the recruitment of thousands of youths from Kebbi State, especially under his Khadimiya Foundation.” Bagudu urged the people of the state to reciprocate these numerous tangible gestures and support the aspiration of Malami. Earlier the Kebbi State APC chairman, Alhaji Abubakar Kana Zuru, extolled Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu and the Minister, Abubakar Malami (SAN) for reaching out to the people of the state with financial and food palliatives in this holy month of Ramadan. He charged people of the state and party members to jealously monitor all projects executed by the State and Federal Government in Kebbi State with a view to ensuring their standard and worthiness. Hajiya Habiba Abubakar and Alhaji Muhammadu Wangarawa who spoke on behalf of the APC members thanked Governor Bagudu for uniting the party and the Minister for his magnanimity in extending assistance to them to celebrate Sallah with ease.