Nigerians have for good reasons, been paying more than a passing attention whenever the subject matter is debt. Nigeria’s total debt stock is expected to hit N45 trillion going by the Debt Management Office’s (DMO) plan to borrow additional N6.39 trillion to finance the 2022 budget deficit. And now, amidst apprehensions about the sustainability of the debt at its current level, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) is making a case for the restructuring of Nigeria’s debts as indeed those of other African countries in debt peonage. According to the director, African Department of the bank, Abebe Selassie, the measure would allow for immediate debt relief and at the same time enable them to take fresh loans. While announcing the fund’s newly created Resilience and Sustainability Trust, which he said “will help ensure that these resources are used to provide critically needed policy support for longer term and longer-term funding for many countries in (our) region” he would equally note that the international community needed to do more “by removing obstacles for quicker debt restructuring under the common framework to allow for swift, and efficient debt restructuring”. Although the fund has never really offered the continent a fair deal, its renewed interest in her debt management process is perhaps noteworthy. For Nigeria, like other African countries currently chaffing under the burden of debt service, the promise of a debt relief ought to be sweet music. So is the offer of fresh loans to help ease off the current fiscal crunch exacerbated by the exogenous factors of COVID-19 and the on-going war in Ukraine. Yet, the question that bears asking at this time is – what has changed? This is in view of the IMF’s refrain and alarm not just at the size of the debts, but the proportion of public debt to the Gross Domestic Product, GDP, which it projects will rise steadily to 44.2 per cent by 2027. Would the latest proposal not amount to merely kicking the debt problem down the road?   Malami and official conflict of interest     No to mob action     Return of The Village Headmaster   Of course, the proposal throws up many questions than it attempts to find answers. First, it glosses over the question of how the debts came about and the environment that enabled their steady build-up. So are issues of corruption and the utter lack of imagination in government – the end result of which is the current appallingly low tax to GDP ratio of eight percent – among the lowest in the world. A good example worth citing in this regard is Delta State, whose lawmakers only recently approved the request by the governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, to borrow N150 billion with barely 13 months to the end of his tenure. In the governor’s letter of request, he claimed that the loan would be used principally to settle contractors engaged to undertake some critical ongoing legacy projects awarded by past and present administrations in the state, as well as outstanding pension commitments to the state and local government areas’ workers in the contributory pension scheme. The question is why a governor, whose state is among the top earners in the federation account, will choose to wait until the lame duck session, when governance is virtually on hold and the nation is effectively on election mode, to go a-borrowing? How could this be justified, let alone defended? There is yet a third reason why Nigerians should take the overnight generosity of IMF with a pinch of salt. Aside the fact that a good number of previous loans were driven more by the self-interest of the lenders in collusion with corrupt officials, as opposed to public interest that is often packaged and presented to the public, Nigerians are by now only too familiar with the prescriptions of the Breton Woods institution not to recognise how they are more often than not, diametrically at variance with our national interest. So, much as Nigerians have nothing against the restructuring, the option of fresh loans should be off the table.