Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, has said the decision of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to throw open the contest for its presidential ticket is sacrosanct as it was done in the overriding interest of the party. Diri explained that although he was a strong proponent of zoning and rotation of the presidency to the South of the country, he accepted the decision in good fate as a loyal party member. The governor spoke on Friday when former Vice President and PDP presidential aspirant, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, visited him at the Government House, Yenagoa. A statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Daniel Alabrah, quoted him as saying that no individual’s political ambition should be allowed to disorganise and disorientate the party. Diri noted that Bayelsa would always work for the unity of the country and against any attempt to disintegrate it.   Ebonyi PDP primary: 13 aspirants jostle for gubernatorial…     Confusion as Ngige drops ambition after Buhari’s valedictory…     With me as President, Nigeria will conquer banditry –…   “Bayelsa, at the nick of time, will first of all put Nigeria into consideration. Bayelsa will not be part of those that will support the breakup of Nigeria. Instead, it will as a matter of fact be part of the writing of history in making Nigeria great,” Diri said. He described Alhaji Abubakar as one of the strong contenders for the party’s presidential ticket, noting that the PDP was more interested in wresting political power from the All Progressives Congress. Speaking earlier, Alhaji Abubakar stressed that the PDP must put its best candidate forward in order to wrest power back from the APC. The former vice president called on the party to brace for unity for the sake of Nigeria, emphasising that the PDP could not afford to be in opposition again from 2023. He described himself as one of the proponents of restructuring, a struggle he said he stood for while in office, noting that devolution of more powers and resources must go to the states for economic survival. Atiku said: “We must put our best forward. Meaning who we believe can bring us back to power. It is very important. We must brace up as a political party. We must unite to return our political party back to power. We cannot afford to be in opposition again. There must be peace and unity before this country can be governed. That is why I emphasise unity and the need to unify the country. What I mean is that, I am going to give every part, every section, religion and faith a sense of belonging in this country.”