The stakes are high. Aspirants for the Hilltop Mansion in Akwa Ibom State in the 2023 governorship elections are campaigning. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is easily the most dominant party on ground, having produced leadership at all levels in the state since 1999. Therefore,it is assumed that the party’s primaries are the real elections before the general elections. Whoever is picked by the party becomes the governor -in -waiting. In 1999,Obong Victor Attah of the PDP beat the All People’s Party to clinch the coveted crown. His second term was a mere walk over. The party repeated this feat in 2007 when it’s candidate, Chief Godswill Akpabio, beat John Akpan Udoedehe of the Action Congress of Nigeria to become the third elected governor. He easily trounced his opponents in his second term bid in 2011. The winning ways of the PDP also produced the Mr  Udom Emmanuel, whose eight year tenure winds up in 2023. For this reason, the framers of the popular statement that ‘PDP is religion in Akwa Ibom State’ have got it right. The party’s umbrella is so grounded that many popular candidates who defect from the PDP to other parties lost because their supporters stuck to the PDP  candidates in the elections. So, the PDP has remained the party to beat. However,it has not been a rosy time  for the party in the state. Early in the year, Governor Udom Emmanuel, who doubles as the leader of the party in Akwa Ibom State attended the grand opening of the campaign complex as well as the skill acquisition facility of  Senator Bassey Albert, the present occupant of the Akwa Ibom North East District in the National Assembly. Bassey,a hugely popular governorship aspirant with deep pockets, beamed with smiles as Senate President Ahmed Lawan accompanied by Governor Emmanuel cut the tape to commission the massive project. The electricity generated by that gesture spread across the state.It was not lost to political pundits and thousands of Albert’s supporters that Senator Albert was adequately prepared to mount the commanding heights of Akwa Ibom State in the next political dispensation. Unbeknownst to him, the governor had other plans. The next day, Governor Emmanuel gathered the posse of the state PDP leadership and some government backers in the Government House and pronounced a certain Pastor Umo Eno as his preferred successor. This surprise move by the governor has continued to generated great upheaval in the party. Umo Eno,a successful entrepreneur and immediate past commissioner for Lands, is  against Senator Albert and House of Representatives member, Onofiok Luke, whose quest for the PDP governorship ticket is surging by the day. The opposition All Progressive Congress(APC) is divided. There is a tussle between former Secretary of the Interim National Executive Committee Udoedehe and the former governor and  immediate past Minister of Niger Delta Affairs Akpabio. However hope is rising by the bend with the entrance of credible aspirants into the race. Senator Ita Enang,a former Presidential Adviser, with matchless legislative experience, Obong Akan Udofia,an industry player and former PDP aspirant and Dr.Chris Ekong,a university don and APC stalwart are top contenders.   ‘Why APC can’t field Jonathan’     2023: APC set for governorship primaries     I will offer quality representation in Senate, says…   However, the dynamics were altered by last week’s governorship declaration of Larry Esin, an engineer. It is safe to conclude that no one saw that coming. Esin, a successful development expert l, has contested for the prime job three times previously. His aspiration,he said in his declaration speech is anchored on the desire to create relevant solutions to the poverty ravaging the land in the midst of vast resources. The major drivers of his economic  plan are ICT development, Agriculture and Tourism.The office of the Governor in Larry Esin’s perception is  blue collared. He told Journalists at the event” the work of the governor is not a white collar job. You don’t sit and drink choice wine in the office. As governor,I shall move around to see the people in their various communities. That’s how to know what their problems are”.Esin’s declaration has also crystalized the draw backs of what he described as the”improper zoning formula in place in our state”. Akwa Ibom State is composed of three ethnic major groups namely Ibibio,Annang and Iron.At creation,a power sharing agreement involving the three ethnic nationalities was put in place to promote ethnic inclusion and foster peace but this was abandoned midway into the fourth republic when governorship seat became a matter for Senatorial Districts consideration. Esin, an Oron-born, advocates a return to the original power rotation if the proper zoning is to be done. Beyond this, Esin has a proven development pedigree. He was the Governor’s Special Assistant on Infrastructure development in the neighouring I and Tinapa Resorts among other viable projects. He also headed the Cross River Investment Corporation in the United States. With this position, Esin attracted juicy foreign collaborations to his employer. These public service experience should help in  the realisation of  Esin’s dream for his home state of Akwa Ibom.. There is no gainsaying that Esin is the odds -on- favorite in the governorship race in Akwa Ibom State. He has brought into the  race such clarity of vision that has not been seen before. Plus, an unassailable capacity and experience in service delivery. His 16 year political oddesy is marked by an unrelenting campaign for a better economy, ethnic/political inclusion and responsive leadership. This comes full circle at a time when a combination of flawed zoning principle and retrogressive political leadership has jeopardised the social progress of the oil rich state. Never before has there been so much dissolutionment and division along ethnic lines. Thus, the aspiration of Larry Esin to skipper the ship of Akwa Ibom State represents a unique opportunity for the people to begin the journey towards the prosperity of the coming years. The declaration may well be the key that unlocks the kind of society Akwa Ibomites shall be proud to leave behind for their children.