The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has lauded the efforts of the Nathaniel Idowu Foundation chaired by Yemi Idowu for the massive transformation of the popular Maracana Stadium in Ajegunle to a world-class facility as over 4000 youngsters across the South West states dazzled at the one-day football fiesta held at the weekend. NFF Vice President Seyi Akinwunmi described the gesture by the foundation as commendable while hoping that the completion of the facilities would help to unearth more talents for Lagos. “Indeed it is a fantastic initiative. The sheer number of children playing football on various pitches simultaneously was a delight to witness,” he said. “This project epitomizes the concept of ‘The Business of Football’ and how crucial infrastructure is in football development. This is truly evidence of the importance of the private sector in grassroots football development. There are a few more of this coming up in Lagos soon,” he added.   Rock-solid Balogun relishes career-best with Rangers     Okpekpe Race: Yasin Haji, Chebet to lead world-class elite…     NFF to screen more applicants for Eagles   Meanwhile, Idowu said the gesture by the foundation was in line with its ideals of supporting education, health, and sports. “We are supporting education, health, and sports through selected institutions and not individuals,” he said. “We are building capacity by working with the Lagos State Football Association, the local government, and the state government because the structure is there. “So when we put in money, this is the kind of outcome expected. We did not do this alone. The Lagos State Governor took personal interest and removed all bottlenecks. “It was a campaign promise for him. He quietly monitored the progress and was always asking what we needed, so we are very grateful to him. Everything was fast-tracked and that’s why we are here,” added Idowu. Upon completion, the facilities would boast of 10 five-a-side pitches, eight seven-a-side pitches, one international size pitch, 50-metre Olympic size pool, one diving pool, a table tennis hall, basketball courts, tennis courts, gym, boxing and mixed martial gym, medical centre as well as an office complex.