The death of Dr. Oluwole Oladejo Adetiran, composer of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) anthem came as a rude shock to many on Friday. Last year, Adetiran explained that he had been inflicted with multiple diseases, including hypertension, diabetes and prostate cancer since 2018. He composed the scheme’s anthem in 1984. Adediran, who studied music at University of Nigeria, Nsukka, recalled that he composed the anthem while serving as a corps member in Oyo State. Before his demise, the NYSC anthem composer was the National Music Director of Celestial Church of Christ (CCC). He was born on 8th September about 74yrs ago in Igbajo in the then Western Region, to the family of Adetiran of Obaloja Compound, Igbajo, now Osun State. Adetiran started his elementary education at the Baptist Day School, Igbajo before moving to Ibadan, Oyo State where he became a street musician and also joined the church choir at First Baptist Church, Idi – Ikan, Ibadan. He learnt the art of playing guitar from a Gold Coast returnee, Mr Dapo Taiwo and became a preferred guitarist amongst his mates in 1963; and a Cathedral Organist in 1965. His musical talent showed him off at the Baptist Teacher Training College where he was appointed as the Social Prefect and the Choir Director. He trained as a musicologist at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka and The University of Ibadan. He was posted to serve in the mandatory NYSC Scheme at The Polytechnic Ibadan. While undergoing the compulsory NYSC scheme in 1984 as a Youth Corp member serving at the Polytechnic Ibadan, he composed the National Youth Service Corp anthem and that is what is still being used till date.   GenCos, NBET renegotiate contracted capacity – NERC     Come to Africa if you want to enjoy life, says Akon     No plans to increase telecoms tariff, says NCC   He lectured at the Department of Music Technology, The Polytechnic, Ibadan, for about 30yrs. He rose from an Assistant Lecturer to Chief Lecturer (Professor Cadre in the University settings) in 1999. He established the first department of Music Technology at the Polytechnic Ibadan, which he headed for eleven years. He also became the first Lecturer in the Music Technology Department to become a Senior Principal Lecturer in the Music Department of the Polytechnic, Ibadan. He is also the first Lecturer in the Department to become a Dean of Faculty of Eight Departments at the Polytechnic of Ibadan. Adetiran later joined the Celestial Church of Christ at Army Barracks Road Parish, Mokola, Ibadan, under the Shepherdship of Late MSE Moses Obasa Adekanmbi, in the early 1970s. Until his demise, he was the Music Director of Celestial Church of Christ, worldwide and the Founding Rector of CCC Academy of Music Technology, Lagos, Nigeria. The Celestial Church of Christ Academy of Music and Music Technology, being the first Monotechnic in Nigeria, was established in 2010, through Adetiran. Adetiran is a recipient of National Award from the Federal Government of Nigeria. He’s a Member of the Pastor-in-Council of the Celestial Church of Christ WW and a J.P. Through Adetiran, several music stars in Nigeria and overseas have been discovered, nurtured, trained and promoted. Amongst these are; Baba Rotimi Olaosebikan (current HOD, Music Tech. Dept., The Polytechnic Ibadan), Olusola Allynson Obaniyi, Samson Adekanmbi (Sammy P), Seyi Solagbade, Chidi Egwuatu, Reuben Adekanmbi and several others. He was also part of the Celestial Church of Christ Hymns Technical Review Council from May 26th 2009 to November 2019. This Council’s efforts under the Supervision and Coordination of Most. Superior Evangelist S. O. Banjo resulted into the New Revised Standard Edition of the CCC Hymn Book launched on 25th December 2019 at Imeko, Ogun State. He battled serious health challenges which also took away his hair strand and replaced them with wounds. He treated it with a purple ointment usually called “Jelu” in Yoruba language to treat wounds of all kinds. During his lifetime, Adetiran coordinated the largest single choir that features at the annual Luli Concert (a Christian worship concert that has taken worship to another level in the world. His music at the Luli Concert created an inter-faith and non-denominational praise gathering for all).