OGOCHUKWU ANIOKE examines the antecedents of 11 aspirants eyeing the governorship seat in both the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) The debate on zoning is threatening the peace and harmony in the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) particularly. Following Governor David Umahi’s defection to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in November 2020, PDP stakeholders rallied around to ensure the party does not implode. Umahi’s defection shook the foundation of the party, as the governor defected with a majority of his appointees and 15 members of the state House of Assembly, including its Speaker, Francis Nwifuru. The jostle for the party’s governorship ticket by aspirants from Ebonyi North and Ebonyi Central has virtually thrown it into chaos. Virtually all the PDP National Assembly members from the two zones are eyeing the party’s ticket. In the governing All Progressives Congress (APC), there was relative peace until Governor Umahi anointed the Speaker of the Ebonyi State House of Assembly, Nwifuru as his preferred successor. The speaker has been known to have a long-standing ambition to replace Umahi. The APC had set up a zoning committee to iron out the grey areas in the zoning disagreement. The aspirants on the platform of the two parties are:   PDP: Obinna Ogba: Obinna Ogba is a two-term senator representing Ebonyi Central at the National Assembly. Akukanannwa, as he is fondly called, hails from the minority Igbo-Essa clan in Ishielu Local Government Area. Ogba, a former PDP chairman, declared his intention to run on January 1, 2022, promising to focus on human capital development and poverty alleviation. He said despite the government’s best efforts “youths and human capital development are still suffering in Ebonyi, while poverty is still massively prevalent in our homes”. He added: “These among other things are the reasons I am declaring my intention to run for the position of governor of Ebonyi State with the intention to do things differently by the grace of God if given the opportunity to serve the people. The federal lawmaker promised to run an all-inclusive government. He also promised to maintain the existing structure in the state while focusing more on rural development. He added: “Our government if elected will be basically welfarist and build the capacity of our economy so that we can provide job for the youths and make Ebonyi attractive, suitable and secure for business. It is on this premise, that I named my campaign slogan ‘Ebonyi will be happy again’.” Ogba has been a major financier of the party since Umahi’s defection. His hotel, Salt Lake has been used as the party head office since the governor’s defection. The hotel’s hall has also been used as the venue for all the party’s meetings free of charge. In addition, he bought cars for the state chairman and some other members of the state executive. He also donated a bus for the executives in addition to the distribution of Sienna cars to the local governments and zonal leaders. However, Ogba despite his popularity and support for the party faces an uphill task in securing the party’s ticket. He is from a minority clan in Ebonyi Central. The Igbo-Essa clan is just one part of Ishielu Local Government, the other half being the Ezza clan who is one of the dominant clans in the state and can be found in most local governments. Ogba is a grassroots politician who is at home with the people, as he has the ability to mix up with both the elites and the poor masses alike. He is also known as a bridge-builder who has far-reaching contacts across the country, cutting across all sectors.   Anayo Edwin: He is a two-term member representing the Íshíelu/Ezza North Constituency in the Ebonyi State House of Assembly. The businessman-turned-politician fits the bill of a young, vibrant administrator, having graduated from the University of Port Harcourt with a degree in Public Administration. With an added advantage of coming from the Ezza clan, Anatex as he is fondly called has promised to deploy the Ebonyi economic master plan which will focus on human capital development. He has also promised to create over 30,000 skilled and unskilled jobs through the foreign direct investment/domestic direct investment drive for industrialisation. He was a one-time Special Adviser to the Bayelsa State governor for about two years before he resigned to contest for a seat in the Ebonyi State House of Assembly (his current legislative position).   Chris Usulor: The scion of late Senator Usulor, Chris is a three-time member of the Ebonyi State House of Assembly. He is reputed to have an independent mind. Thus, he is one of the most respected members of the Ebonyi State House of Assembly, as he has always had the ability to challenge the state government and leadership of the house on a number of issues and bills he considered anti-people. Usulor is one of the few political office holders who openly declared their intentions to remain in PDP when the governor defected to the APC in 2020. He has faced several persecutions for his stance on several issues but remains undeterred. Though from Ezza clan, Usulor enjoys the goodwill of various clans and people from across the state, due to his mature way of playing politics. Like his late father, he is seen as a man of his words. As one of the youngest aspirants, he is seen as a breath of fresh air, compared to the old guard politicians.   Fidelis Nwankwo: Fidelis Nwankwo, a former Minister of State for Health, was a popular figure during the 2015 general election, as he served as the Director-General of the Umahi Campaign Organisation. A highly revered man from Izzi clan, he is believed to have the support of many PDP stakeholders from the Ebonyi South zone.   Silvester Ogbaga:    Row over Ebonyi Speaker’s endorsement     Debate on zoning dominates succession race in Ebonyi     Nigeria: Living on tomorrow’s bread   Silvester Ogbaga is the lawmaker representing Izzi/Abakaliki Federal Constituency at the National Assembly. He is one of the longest-serving political office holders; he has been elected a record four times to represent his constituency at the National Assembly. Equity and justice favour his candidature, as he hails from the Ebonyi North zone which last held the position some 15 years ago.   Chukwuma Nwazunku: Nwazunku is currently the member representing Ebonyi/Ohaukwu Federal Constituency. A former Speaker of Ebonyi House of Assembly, Nwazunku hails from Ebonyi Local Government Area, in Ebonyi North senatorial district.   Dr Eze Emmanuel Ezeh: A chieftain of the PDP from Izzi clan, Dr Ezeh has officially declared interest to contest next year’s governorship election in Ebonyi State. A serial entrepreneur and the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Immaculate Group, Dr Ezeh has pledged to resolve issues surrounding the moribund Nigeria Cement Nkalagu (NigerCem) within 100 days in office, if elected governor. He said NigerCem would not just be revived but would serve as the driver of the industrialization policy of his administration, in order to provide jobs for the teeming unemployed Ebonyi youths. The governorship hopeful said his administration would be anchored on the people. He added that he would bring back people elements to governance. He also pledged to restore the place of intellectuals in governance, in order to bring deep and critical thinking to governance issues in the state. Ezeh said with the diversity of the experience he is bringing to the table, like his finance background, leadership training from one of the world’s elite institutions, multiple doctorate qualifications, one of which is from Nigeria’s premier institution, the University of Nigeria (UNN),  a business career spanning multiple fields such as media, information and communication technology (ICT), renewable energy, etc, he is coming prepared. He said: “Our vision as a government will be anchored on three pillars, which is recovery, rebuilding and restoration of Ebonyi State to the original dreams of our founding fathers.   APC: Nnanna Igwe: Nnanna Igwe is an England based medical doctor who hails from Ezra South Local Government Area. He recently declared interest to take over from Governor Umahi. He has promised to continue from where the governor would stop in infrastructure development. He promised to bring capacity, and experience with competence in different other areas to try to lift Ebonyi people out of poverty, create wealth and make the state economy the number one economy not only in Nigeria but possibly in Africa. Nnanna promises to bring his experience in the health sector to bear on the state health sector. He said: “We are going to create a digital economy that will be able to create wealth and create capacity in our system that will be able to impact every Ebonyi person as much as possible. The health sector will receive a massive boost. We will start a system similar to what we have in the United Kingdom; we have National Health Service in the UK. We will create Ebonyi Health Service and that health service will be free, you go to hospital free and be treated free.” Nnanna has also promised free primary and secondary education and affordable university education. But, having lived most of his adult life abroad where he is based, his lack of experience in Nigerian politics and governance is believed to be a disadvantage to his quest to replace Umahi.   Francis Nwifuru: Nwifuru is the speaker of the Ebonyi State House of Assembly; a position he has held for seven years now. The lawmaker who represents the Izzi West constituency is Governor Umahi’s preferred successor. He is from the Izzi clan and Ebonyi North Local Government.   Elias Mbam: Elias Mbam, the Executive Chairman, Revenue mobilization, allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) hails from Izzi Local Government Area.  Though he has not formally declared his interest, he has however embarked on consultations across the state. He recently said he has assembled a team of professionals drawn from international agencies, civil society, media experts and professionals to develop a roadmap that will guide his administration when he becomes the governor of Ebonyi State. This roadmap to be called “The Smart Ebonyi – a Manifesto of Robust Development” integrates the various plans, visions, missions and development strategies of past and present leaders to produce a policy masterplan. The master plan, he said, is anchored on his mission which is to “achieve prosperity for all Ebonyi people through human capital development, infrastructure growth and good governance in a secure and peaceful environment”, with the vision to “create a sustainable shared prosperity for all Ebonyi people”. Deriving from the mission and vision of his administration, the master plan focuses on five key agenda from which there are 17 development priorities.  The five key development agenda are Functional and futuristic education; human capital development and empowerment; robust agricultural development, intensive infrastructural development and security. Mbam said: “Some of the development priorities that the agenda addresses are futuristic, functional and affordable education; efficient and responsive public service; universal and affordable health care; friendly business environment and investments; intensive infrastructure development; technical and vocational education; robust information technology; enhanced agriculture and food security; environment & climate change; efficient and responsive security; empowerment and poverty alleviation etc., etc.” Mbam is believed to have a lot of pull in the APC at the national level which could be instrumental in his ambition to pick the party’s ticket.   Edward Nkwoagu: Nkwoagu was the governorship candidate of the Labour Party (LP) during the 2015 governorship election, which he lost to Umahi. He is from Ebonyi North senatorial zone and is beloved to be nursing an ambition to replace Umahi come 2023.