An ecstatic Yemi Idowu, chairman, Nathaniel Idowu Foundation, was on hand to usher in first timers, journalists, junior football players and dignitaries, among them: the Oriru of Iru land, Oba Abdulwasiu Omogbolahan Lawal, Abisogun II, Bayo Olalenge, chairman, Ekiti State Football Association and Hon. Fatai Ayoola, Ajeromi Ifelodun LGA, to the rejuvenated Maracana Stadium Ajegunle last Saturday. He described the multi-sport edifice as a realization of one of the cardinal pillars of the foundation and happy that the project that kicked off about two years ago is a reality. No fewer than 4000 junior players took part in the test run with about 128 teams from Lagos and other Southwest states. Idowu said of the test run: “I’m very happy; I’m fulfilled because we started a journey and we are not far from our destination. This test run has proved that we are on the right part. We were aiming for a capacity of 128 teams and maximum of 3000 kids but we have over 4000. That is phenomenal and everybody is very happy. When completed, the sports facility will, perhaps, be the biggest sporting arena dedicated to school-age children. “When completed, we will have 19 football pitches,  three basketball courts, two tennis courts,  20 table tennis tables, a mixed martial arts gym, and a full fitness gym.  We will also have 5,000 seated grandstands, 50 meters Olympic size swimming pool, a 25 metres training pool, and a diving pool. There will also be hostels for up to 300 children, many changing rooms, toilets, a medical cen ter, water, electricity, and 24-hour security service.” Bayo Olalenge, chairman, Ekiti State Football Association, said he is impressed with the facility. “I’m very impressed by coming to the historic Maracana Stadium. I came with my children to mingle with their peers from the South Western part of the country. This is something to be excited about if you are truly a football stakeholder. Bringing the kids here to compete in a modern facility like this will create a great memory for them not to talk of the hope we are providing for them. Provision of facilities is a major duty of the Government and to see private individuals coming to invest in such facilities is great. The corporate organizations should also invest in sports so that they can get return on their investment rather than donating. For me, bringing the kids here today is very important and I want to see those kids succeed in whatever they choose. So, I will be very fulfilled in five years when I see them on that path to greatness.” Hon. Fatai Ayoola, Ajeromi Ifelodun LGA, lauded the Foundation for the great turnaround. “The ground that we are standing on has been turned around into a world class sporting center with multiple playing pitches with other facilities that are still under construction including swimming pool, basketball courts, boxing gym, ta ble tennis, lawn tennis and many others. We are grateful to Yemi Idowu and the Nathaniel Idowu Foundation for the intervention, putting funds into this project.   JOSH ONOMAN: It’s great to be back in the Premiership     ADEMOLA LOOKMAN: Bittersweet memory of World Cup playoff     2023: Don’t use free forms to kill women’s ambitions,…   “This is very huge for us because we are really concerned about the future of our children and we want them to develop in the right way. The best we can do for them is to give them the platform where they will be able to excel and bring out their innate talent that is embedded in an average child in Ajegunle. Our major focus is taking those kids away from the streets and helping them to discover their innate talent. If you are a boxer, you are a swimmer and most especially if you are a footballer this is the place you have to be. I can assure you that in the next five years, this facility will be second to none as far as  sporting facilities are concerned because those that are involved are technocrats and seasoned administrators who are versed in management of sporting facilities. “You will also recall that before we got to this stage, we sent our engineers to understudy what is happening in Delta and Edo and check the drainage facility. When it rains now, Maracana is not flooded because we’ve taken a number of things into consideration because we arrived at this stage. I can assure you, everything will work according to plan by the grace of God.” Idowu further traced the project to former Lagos state governor Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu who introduced the Millennium Schools. “My current research reveals a long journey of which we are lucky to be part of it. Many years ago Governor Bola Ahmed Tinubu introduced the Millennium Schools concept and promised standard education to the children of Ajegunle.  This promise was fulfilled and today Ajeromi ifelodun local government has over 32 Millennium schools. For this reason, Ajegunle which is within Ajeromi Ifelodun local has a very high concentration of school-age children and is very important for school sports. “In 2018, I was involved in residential estate development in Ajegunle and we observed that the youth and children were playing football in every available space. They were very organized and respectful. As the construction progressed, the available space was reduced until there was no space left for the youth. After the extensive engagement,  the chairman of Ajeromi Ifelodun local government intervened and negotiated with my company to build a new 11 a side astroturf pitch which is now named Odion Ighalo stadium. The pitch was very successful and well-received. Ever since then, I have enjoyed a very good relationship within the community.” Idowu, who is a front-line proponent of infrastructure sustainability and security as tools to developing and sustaining Megacities in Africa, believed the new Maracana stadium, will promote that in Lagos-one of Africa’s largest cities. “We’ve achieved this with the support of everybody. Like I said, we had direct support from the Lagos State Government and they didn’t make it official. It was personal support. The same thing for the local government, personal support, the same thing for the FA and that’s why many people did not see it. We started quietly and grew.” On sustenance, Idowu added: “Nathaniel Idowu Foundation will continue to fund it, but there will be minor registration charges for users. I’m not able to say how much it has cost to have this at the moment. We are spending a significant amount of money every year for various projects. We have four of these facilities coming up in different areas of Lagos. This is the government’s vision, we gave them the proposal and they accepted it and it’s being handled directly by the Governor, all this is the Governor’s vision so when you see him you can ask where the next facility will be situated.”