Rising cost of food items in the country is worrisome, and rightly so. Millions of Nigerians literally pay through their nose to put food on the table. What makes the situation dire is the fact that virtually all food items are affected, including ingredients and other condiments. It is so serious that people no longer discuss it in hushed tones; the complaints have now become too strident for the government not to hear. It cannot be otherwise in a situation where a bag of rice which sold for about N15,000 a few years back now goes for about N35,000, a more than 100% increase. Similarly, a bag of beans has gone up from N9,000 to N28,000. Also, a bottle of groundnut oil which now sells for about N900 per bottle was sold for N400 a few years ago. Even seasoning, salt and sugar have also become more expensive. That is not all; a kilo of cooking gas, which was N600 around December, 2021, is now about N750. The cumulative effect of these astronomical price increases is a plunge in the standard of living of Nigerians. Although different people have come up with several lists of what constitute basic human needs, we can narrow them down to four. These are food, water, air and shelter. If any of the first three, at least, is not met, death beckons. One can improvise to some extent on the fourth, which is shelter. Each of the four serves different purposes to our bodies.   ASUU is still a joke     As states scramble to build airports     Buhari to visit Ebonyi Thursday   But food provides nutrients, that is substances that provide energy for our daily activities, growth and all other functions of the body like breathing, digestion and keeping us warm. We also need food to keep our immune system healthy. Nutrients, chemicals that our body needs include vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates, protein and lipids, all of which also help in nourishing our bodies. If food is this important, it follows that it should be within reach. In other words, it should come cheap, at least for the basic food items that would give us the appropriate calories that we need to function properly. This is the reason many countries subsidise food items, to enable their citizens meet their daily requirements of what constitutes a balanced diet. The United States of America, for example, subsidises agriculture to the tune of about $16billion annually. British farmers get about £3billion from the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) annually despite comprising only about 0.7% Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Indeed, food is such an essential requirement of Iife that people have had to revolt due to lack of it, or when its price is beyond reach. As a matter of fact, it led to violent revolution like that of France in 1789. Even in this century, we have had a rash of food riots in many developing countries like Indonesia, Brazil, Mexico, India, to name a few, over astronomical rise in the prices of what could pass for iconic foods in these countries. Thus, the riots which led to massive looting of stores, fast food restaurants and supply depots were caused by high cost of staple food items like rice, bread, onions, among others, resulting in deaths in some cases and erosion of credibility of governments in others. As the saying goes, “a hungry man is an angry man”. The only language a man that is hungry understands is to be provided with food. That is why many governments do all within their powers to stem rising food prices and prevent the anarchy that usually follows it. Although many observers believe the rising price of fuel, particularly diesel, is responsible for the rising prices of food items in the country, as farmers still have to transport the items to the town, this only explains a part of the story. The most important reason food prices are soaring in the country is due to insecurity. Farmers have, especially in recent times, become an endangered species. People now go to farms with their hearts in their mouths, as terrorists have made many farmers abandon farming for fear of being killed, kidnapped or their wives and daughters raped by the heartless criminals. Add these to the recurring destruction of farmlands by herdsmen who trample on farmlands, destroying farm produce in the process, we cannot blame farmers who are fleeing their farms in droves. The consequence is shortage of food items that in turn breeds high prices. Governments at all levels have to do a lot to remedy the situation and stabilise the prices of foodstuffs in order to save Nigerians from malnutrition and anarchy. Already, they are battling with all manner of hardships occasioned by bad leadership, either by the present administration and those it inherited. Taking food items beyond their reach is going to be one problem too many. It is therefore incumbent on the Federal Government in particular to fight the insurgency war more vigorously so that farmers can confidently return to the farms and work towards reversing the spiralling prices of food items. Other factors militating against agriculture can similarly be tackled once security is guaranteed. Rising food prices is an open invitation to chaos and disenchantment, the end of which no one can predict.