Bala Mohammed, the ethnic irredentist governor of Bauchi state, was back this past week, lecturing us about Fulani exceptionalism, about how the Fulani is a global person who should not be expected to obtain a visa to enter any country, whatever. It is not his first time as i had cause to write about him  as follows on September 29, 2019: “Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi state must have sent not a few Nigerians into utter delirium when,  some two weeks ago on Channels Television,  he waxed lyrical, authoritatively telling his listeners  how Fulanis  all over West Africa, are eligible  to participate in  the National Livestock Transformation Plan. Every question thrown at him to explain this dubious claim saw him telling Nigerians how every Fulani is a Nigerian because he, Mohammed, has relations in the Cameroons, or such like inanities”. Now he has upped the ante. Because the Buhari government cannot, according to him, protect Fulani herdsmen, (as if anybody, or even, travellers on trains are) they are at liberty to carry AK 47 about”. –  ‘What Voodoo Economy Is This?’ – 14 February, 2021. Last week on this column, I insinuated that zoning the APC presidential candidacy to the South  could very well be a ploy, indeed, a ruse. I based that  assumption  on two grounds: one, that given everything that President Buhari has done for  the North during his now 7 – year old administration, he cannot, reasonably, be expected to  undo them by so soon handing over power to a  Southerner who, even if he were an Arewa hireling,  would not be able, to allow the North continue to enjoy all those undue advantages, all products of injustice. The second is that President Buhari’s choice, no his insistence, on Senator Abdullai Adamu, a man who had not in any way famously distinguished himself, wether as governor of  Nasarawa state, or nationally in his many  years in government, as APC  National chairman, could only have been the result of his unreflecting  support for a nation wide establishment of  grazing routes, a suggestion rejected  by some core Northern governors, but which the President simply adores.. Also, what in all decency  should have suggested the name of ex- President Jonathan to anybody in APC if some people were not up to some plot  to disorganise  long suffering APC members in the South in order to have  an easy fall guy when the North votes for the PDP presidential candidate, in a rehash of the 2015 experience when Northern PDP governors deceptively  worked for President Buhari’s victory thus confirming the impression that for a  Northerner, party affiliation  means nothing, only power does. Festus Eriye answered this question  concerning President Jonathan when in his article: ‘2023: The Curious Case of Goodluck Jonathan’, published in The Nation of Wednesday, 26 April, 2022 he wrote as follows::”In the run-up to the 2015 polls, the then opposition identified the economy, corruption and insecurity as Jonathan, and the PDP government’s weakest points. They made these the focus of campaign attacks to great effect. Seven years after, these problems have metastasized. If he wasn’t good enough to deal with them back them, resulting in voters rejecting him, what makes him the solution now that these challenges have become monsters? Beyond playing statesman, there’s no evidence the former president took a refresher course at any School of Competence since losing power”. Of course, as we have seen, these people are not bothered about finding a solution as we would have since been rid of insecurity in Nigeria. But surprise awaits those thinking like that   as  those on the negative side of government action in this administration should know exactly how to vote, come the next presidential election. Apparently, those  pushing the project are too consumed by their love of raw power to think through all the ramifications. President Jonathan, indeed,  must have chuckled to himself when Ralph Okorie, speaking on behalf of  a non – descript Citizens Network for Peace and Development in Nigeria, which is out canvassing  his  candidacy, claimed the other day, that “allowing candidates without a clear cut vision to get into the Presidential Villa in 2023, would not only be suicidal but would be like aiding and supporting incompetence over competence”. Did President Jonathan, as president, once showed that he had a clear-cut policy for Nigeria? That his  name came up at all only confirms the selfishness of the Northern oligarchy which believes it can tolerate power shift for no more than four years, if at all it must. Going to  beg President Jonathan to throw in his cap only confirms  the fact that the North will not be  averse to working for the  PDP  candidate in 2023 as long as he is a Northerner, since all that matters to them is having  power back soonest, discounting the fact that the North has ruled Nigeria far longer than the South since independence. It is equally interesting, as explained above, that the same factor which recommended Senator Abdullahi Adamu for the APC Chairmanship, is  the same reason which underpinned Governor Bala Mohammed’s  emergence from Babangida’s inspired elders – love of the Fulsni simpli cita. That Senator Saraki’s name  featured at all, is for me,  another ploy, as only a full- blooded Fulani  can fit the bill. Why do I say so?   Revisiting Nigeria’s political trajectory     Show of shame!     Seek ye first the political kingdom III   As I wrote last week, give it to the  Fulani for the they have in their intelligentsia.  Consisting, in the days of yore,  as the likes of Ahmed Talib, Yahaya Gusau, Liman Ciroma, Ali Akilu, Adamu Ciroma, Adamu Fika, Hamza Zayyad, Muhammad Bello, Mamman Daura, Mahmud Tukur, Ahmed Joda, MT Usman etc, they are, to this day, “a select group of people with a certain ancestry, intrinsic quality, high intellect, special skills or experience”, as well as being undiluted Northern patriots. Mostly ascetic, self – effacing and, forever working stealthily, their sole concern is power – its acquisition, retention, and its usage for the North. Anything else matters not. There is no way, therefore,  these very smart people would have agreed that it is judicious, even reasonable, to now allow power to move away from  the North, especially after the very  North- centric Buhari administration. For them, what this time  requires is power consolidation. And what do I mean by the Buhsri administration being North – centric? Not even during the First Republic of the Sadauna, Sir Ahmadu Bello, and  Prime Minister, Sir Ahmadu Bello, was the North in such total control of Nigeria as is now the case all within 7 short years of  President Buhari’s administration. As you read this, the North not only controls the 3  arms of government – Executive, Legislative and Judicial, it  controls all arms – bearing  agencies, all Intelligence services, military and civilian – inclusive of both  Immigration and Prisons. Same goes for nearly all the major revenue generating, and disbursing agencies of government, as well as most regulatory agencies, whether in Health, Education, Aviation, Data, Communications, Pension, Sovereign Wealth, to name but a few. Add to that the fact that the conditions which predisposed the North to let power move to the South in 1999 simply no longer  exist today. So there  is no overarching reason for, especially the APC,  to have  so meekly zoned  the presidency to the South, or the North to ‘abandon’ power, if there isn’t something some people  know but which we dont know here in the South. I sincerely doubt the next President will come from the South. This is where, I believe, ex- President Ibrahim Babangida’s intervention became inescapable.  Past master in political trickery, I verily believe that  General Babangida is  working for the North, not  just for a party. And his involvement is the climax,  not the  beginning of  a plot  which started as soon as President Buhari was sworn in for his second term. Or  when, in Nigeria’s political history, has   Northern elders been this involved in who emerged the presidential candidate of any party? None, of course, but as I see things, the need to maintain the status quo, post Buhari, has become the urgency of now for the Northern oligarchy. This is  more so as no ELECTED President of Southern extraction can allow all this injustice to continue. Efforts had been on for about 3 years to recruit Southern politicians who would play ball. Readers old enough would recall how military President Babangida used to promise just about anybody the presidency during his time. This time around, it is believed that some were even shown security reports, confirming  them as the president’s choice of a successor.  Apparently, failure of the effort  in the Southwest must have led the Buni- led interim committee of the  APC  to the Southeast and the Southsouth where they hit gold, succeeding in prising away two state governors from the PDP. One of them would, even shamelessly,  claim that a fellow state governor, of the same PDP, scared him out of the party rather than confess he fell prey to a sweet scam. Today, he is a contestant. Jokers! General Babangida has, however,  over reached himself and denunciations have since  come aplenty; all because, apparently, not everybody was in on the scheme. They  will soon be pacified, anyway,  and President Babangida will continue with his seeming last hurray apace. Long may he live. There is  equally already in place,  the excuse to  profer for the APC defeat when, or if, it finally happens. In a classical case of blaming the victim, Nigerians would be told that even though the North genuinely supported APC in zoning its candidacy to the South, too many exuberant Southern politicians, who all wanted to be President  messed up the party’s chances. I shall honestly love to be proved wrong in all these but as  far  as I can see, the party will be exceedingly lucky to have President Buhari  hand over to the APC candidate on  29 May, 2023.