KOGI State Coordination Office of Agro-Processing, Productivity Enhancement and Livelihood Improvement Support Project (APPEALS) has facilitated distribution of 39 haulage facilities to 87 marketing groups to ease transportation of farm produce. Eleven trucks, six Boxer buses and 22 tricycles were given to beneficiaries in the marketing segment under the value chains of rice, cashew and cassava, among items, such as rice de stoner, generators, weighing scale, bag sealing machines and cashew cutters. The 1,442 marketers are from 87 marketing groups qualified from the series of identification processes as spelt out by the project. They are to utilise the facilities for the benefit of the group. In a ceremony to hand over the facilities, Deputy Governor and Chairman of the State Steering Committee of APPEALS, Chief Edward  Onoja, hailed the beneficiaries for being selected. He advised them not to sell the support given to them but make good use of them for the benefit of group members. Onoja thanked the state APPEALS  project, ed by Project Coordinator Dr Sanni Ozomata for transforming the agricultural sector.   NPA needs N100b to fix infrastructure     B737-800 leads converted freighter fleet growth     African Energy Bank to fund major projects   He acknowedged the support facilitated by the project across segments of production, processing and marketing with the Women and Youth Empowerment programme (WYEP), noting that great value has been added to the agricultural sector. Onoja hailed Governor  Yahaya Bello for providing the leadership enabling the state to achieve its potential. Ozomata said a bottom-top approach where beneficiaries decide what they wanted was adopted to facilitate the support. He said having facilitated support for those in production and processing, it was the turn of food marketers. Commissioner for Agriculture David Apeh, represented by Permanent Secretary in Ministry of Agriculture, Mr Sanni Abdulganiyu, said the success recorded by APPEALS project in is as a result of the environment created by the governor. He urged beneficiaries to  use the facilities well to achieve good result. In his address, Commercialisation and Business Development Officer for  APPEALS project in Kogi, Mr Alexander Atama, said beneficiaries were selected in line with the criteria spelt out by the project.